hi this is a six plus hour
javascript review we cover everything
from what is programming all the way
through functions variables loops
conditionals
apis objects all the goods that you need
to be ready to move into back-end web
development using
node my name is leon i run a 30-week
free software engineering bootcamp where
you can go from zero experience to all
the skills that you need to get a job
we've had hundreds of folks get jobs and
most recently our current cohort has
brought in over a half a million dollars
in client work already
so if you're interested in learning how
to code you're interested in joining
community is 33 000 plus strong on
discord where you can get your questions
answered you can learn for free and
ultimately get a job as a software
engineer you found the right spot
alrighty folks we're going to jump right
into the beginnings
of programming we're going to go into
the basics the big four of javascript
we're going to take our our breaks at
the top of each hour
so if you
need to take a break that's okay
but know that we'll take breaks at the
top of every hour
cool
alrighty folks
a computer will do
what you tell it
to do
a computer will do what you tell it to
do
a program
is simply what chat what's a program
what's a program
yeah
a program instead of instructions that
you write to tell a computer what to do
right it's just a set of instructions
therefore programming is the task of
writing those instructions
in a language that the computer can
actually understand
now we're all learning a language
together called javascript but the
computer really can't understand
javascript it has to be broken down into
something that the computer can actually
understand and so next week we're
actually going to see
how that breaking down happens and
how javascript is able to actually run
on our computers
cool
so let's start off with this idea of a
simple
circuit
okay
simple circuit
i'm gonna have a wire
that connects to a battery
this battery
is then connected back to the light bulb
and with this circuit on
and complete
the light bulb would turn
on
now what i want to do
is i want to introduce
i want to
introduce a switch to this circuit
i have my battery
and here is my switch
techie uh we are this is not a class
this is our review so we're doing a full
javascript review everything that we've
covered in javascript up to this point
we're doing as part of a review
uh
our office hours and reviews are always
on twitch for 60 days uh immediately
cool all right
so
here we have a circuit with a simple
switch the switch is open so is the
light bulb on is the light bulb shining
at this moment
circuit's not complete
so light bulb's not on so
let's go ahead and close the switch
and now the switch is closed
the light bulb comes on nice so
if i wanted to represent this switch
uh what's an easy way for me to
represent this switch
how can i talk about this switch
yeah i can talk about is on and off
or opening close
right so on or off or open and close
however that on and off
right
right on or off or open or close that's
too long to type
i want something simple what i'm gonna
say is
if the circuit is off or open
i'm going to say zero
and if the circuit is closed
all right the circuit is closed
i'm going to say
one
so right now i can represent this
circuit as what
what can i do to represent this circuit
at the moment
yeah this is one
since right now
right
because right now this mach this circuit
is closed
and
it is on i can represent this with the
number one all right
now let's go ahead and add a little bit
more complexity here let's have two
switches
boom
there we go how could i represent this
circuit
yeah zero zero nice
these are both open i could say zero
zero
nice
how about if i closed
the switches
now what are we at
we're at one one nice
and how could i describe
like when i say this circuit right here
when i say 1-1 that's actually a fancy
word for saying
this one blank this one are closed
when i see one one what's a that's a
fancy way of saying what
yeah it's a fancy way of saying and
right and so very very quickly we can
start to see all right if we combine
some of these very simple notions right
multiple open and closed circuits we
could start to build up to some very
very simple logic now this is like a
very
simplified example there's more detail
to be had here but the idea is that
from just representing these on or off
values right whether or not our circuits
are open or closed we can start to build
up to some very simple right
some very simple
logic
and then from this logic
right from this logic
we can start to build up a rudimentary
language we can then add some memory we
can add
some arithmetic logic we can start to
add all these kind of simple
pieces together and build up
a computer that can listen to the
instructions we give it
right and so the idea here is that we
have these lovely little bits of logic
that we can start to use to build up
into more and more complex ideas
now
in the past we talked about
we've talked about independence day as a
true
story
why is independence day a true story
i'm bub
yeah
binary upload boom so
if you if you if you missed our class or
if you have never watched uh the
legendary film independence day uh what
we have is aliens come
and when the aliens come
we actually have a spaceship in roswell
that like turns on
so we know like this proximity and maybe
communications is tied to power in some
way shape or form because when the
motherships come the ship that we have
gets powered
and we're trying to nuke the ships
nothing's working
the shields keep blocking our nukes and
so jeff goldblum saves the world by
doing what
yeah they uh they they upload a virus
and the virus brings down the shields
long enough for us the nuke the uh
the uh the aliens out of orbit so
how can we write a computer virus in a
language that we
probably don't understand right i don't
think the
the the aliens were using javascript
maybe they were right but uh the aliens
were using some language that we had to
reverse engineer and so jeff goldblum to
save the world took that language
reversed engineered it all the way down
to the zeros and ones the ons are off we
are assuming that on and off
is a universal constant right like the
idea that something could be on or
something can be off and that we can
build up the simple logic from those on
and off values and from the simple logic
we can start to build a a language that
works with these alien ships and so jeff
goldblum reversed engineered all the way
down to the zeros and ones built up a
virus that we then injected into the
alien mothership we know the alien
mothership is constantly communicating
with all the other ships because when
the ship showed up our ship in roswell
turned on so that virus on the mother
ship got infecting all the other ships
around the world their shields came down
we nuked them america
spoiler
[Music]
right
and so we're able to realize that all
right this idea of on and off values
building up to
more complex logic well that may one day
help us stop an alien invasion but it
also forms this beginning idea that hey
we can
from these base
ideas
to this base logic we can build all the
way up to a language that then we as
humans can use and understand and so the
language that we use throughout this
course is javascript it is a language
that can run both not only in the front
end the code that runs in our browsers
but also the backend the code that runs
on our servers and so we can learn one
language that can help us build full
stack web applications and that can be
broken down into something that the
computer can understand so
since we are trying to get jobs as
quickly as possible we use javascript so
we don't have to do that context
switching sometimes if you learn another
language not only do you need to know
javascript to work in the browser but
you also need ruby or python on the back
end well we kind of stop that we go
straight to javascript we say all right
another javascript on the front and back
end it's going to help us get into jobs
as quickly as possible cool
now when we're writing javascript
javascript has a specific
syntax a spelling or grammar rules that
we have to follow when we're writing
that language we're going to see a lot
of special characters they might not use
on a regular basis
semicolons brackets parentheses
quotation marks and other unique
characters that come up over and over
again
um so i like to show that syntax real
quick
just in the inspector i'm going to open
up an inspector
i'm just going to open up my console
and for most of you who have seen these
already we worked with these a lot but
just it's just helpful to to review them
so less than and greater than our
carrots
um that are kind of the arrows
we have our dot for dot notation
we have our square brackets which we use
a lot with arrays or even accessing
objects which we'll see a little bit
later
we have our
curly braces our figure brackets
we have our question marks for ternaries
we have our double
forward slash the comment stuff out
we have our
colons which we'll see happen a lot
specifically with the ternaries as well
semicolons what used to be used at the
end of each line but not really super
used anymore
we got our single quotes our double
quotes we also have uh if we kind of go
up above the quotes we have double pipe
character for or that's typically above
your enter key
so we say or
we have hyphen for subtraction we have
our parentheses
uh we have our asterisk for
multiplication we have our double
ampersand for and
we have our percent sign for modulus
which is how we get a remainder
we have our dollar sign which we call
bling which we'll be using with things
like template literals we have our
octothorpes we have our bangs so we
don't really call them uh excavation
points we call them bangs and bang in
javascript typically represents not so
you can say like not equal
we have our plus sign for uh addition
our equal sign for assignment it's an
assignment operator when it's just one
and then when it's two or three it's a
what
let's see if people can remember this
before we get to reviewing it
one equal sign is an assignment operator
but two or three is what
yeah comparison exactly nice
i love it
cool
um what else we got we got ticks
and i think that's about it so
there's so many other little characters
that might come up too but just want to
show those again and so over today we'll
see most of these put into action and so
if you've never used them before that's
okay we'll see them when they come up
but i like to show these because you're
gonna notice that all those keys
are on the accessory of like on the
peripheral of your keyboard which means
even if you're like elite gamer and you
you you you game every day you're on
your keyboard keyboard every day
you're still not hitting those
outside keys that's a lot of flexion
it's a lot of tension it's a lot of
things that you're doing
repetitive stress to your hands
please when we take our breaks at the
top of the hour
give your hands that rest right give
your hands that stretch run them in any
warm water
follow the guidelines of dr levi the
fitness doctor
you can find that on discord they have a
whole video on how to like take care of
your hands
please take care of your hands
cool
all right in the spirit of taking the
break at the top of the hour being
respectful to our hands that's what
we're gonna do when we come back we're
jumping into the first of the big four
which are
variables
all right folks let's go and take our
break five minutes on the clock when we
come back we're gonna talk about
variables and jump in the big four we're
gonna start writing some javascript code
i'm excited to have you i'm glad we're
here for the super review let's get it
right there are scenarios where
you might use state case or some other
casing
you'll see that i'll use camel casing
throughout all of my code it's in my
html it's in my css it's in my
javascript
right i just got the camel the hump
start the capture at some exactly
uh but
i feel like for most of the program you
should probably stick to camel casing
because that's what you'll see me do the
most
but once you join a company or a
different team they might use a
different type of casing and you'll
switch to that whatever it may be so no
right or wrong way i just think
camelcasing's helpful helps you helps
you across html css and javascript and
so whatever you pick just be consistent
with it
cool
now we have this way of storing stuff
into memory right we have these we have
these data buckets but what
can actually go in
these buckets well
we can put strings in there or pieces of
text and in javascript there's a few
ways to create pieces of text you can
have
text surrounded by double quotes
single quotes and what else what's the
last way that we can create a string
we've all seen double quotes and single
quotes before what else
yeah
ticks we can use back ticks and that's
how we can get into things like template
literals template strings we have we use
backtick so the trick when dealing with
strings
is that whatever you use on the outside
you can't use on the inside so
you can have single quotes on the
outside and double quotes on the inside
or double quotes on the outside and
single quotes on the inside but you
can't mix and match because
that's where your string would end so if
we were to go ahead and
kind of mimic this
this day purchased it
i'm gonna go ahead and open up my
console here i'm gonna say
uh they purchased it so the first way
they had it is with single quotes they
purchase
it right single quotes on the outside of
closing inside perfectly fine however if
we did double quotes on the outside they
you can see
that right away
it's trying to create two strings right
the string ended right here
it didn't it did it wasn't able to see
that oh you wanted this to be quoted
what it does see is like oh this is
where the first string ends here's where
another string is created and then what
is javascript going to try and look up
purchased as what is it going to try and
repurchased as here
yeah it's going to try and read it as a
variable so we can do something special
though there's one way you can get
around this and this is with escaping
we put this lovely forward slash
sorry this lovely backslash in front of
our quotes on the inside
and when we hit enter you can see that
we still have the the they purchased it
it works because we have escaped the
double quotes
all right we've escaped the double
quotes so remember whatever you use on
the inside
you can't use on the outside unless you
escape them
cool
we can also put numbers into our data
buckets or our variables
there are a couple different types of
numbers that we have in javascript first
we'll talk about integers which are kind
of like our whole numbers there's also
floated values which are numbers with
decimal places
you can have side numbers both positive
and negative and you can have side
numbers on both your your integers and
your floated values
and we can do basic arithmetic
with the values that get put into these
variables so the numbers that we have
access to
we can do basic arithmetic with those
numbers uh addition with the plus sign
subtraction with the hyphen
multiplication with our asterisk
division with our forward slash and if
you want the remainder you can use
modulus so 10 mod 6 would give us what
chat
and mod 6 would give us what
yeah give us four exactly we give us
four
nice
because six goes into ten one time
there's four left over it's the
remainder
cool all right in today's materials if
you need the materials remember you
gotta join our discord agree to the
rules and in the follow materials
channel you'll get all the starter code
for today so
if you go ahead and grab that file if
you haven't already you'll notice that
there is a variable fun time folder here
i'm going to open up variable fun time
in my vs code you'll notice that i just
opened the entire folder right i just
opened the entire folder
in my
vs code and i'm just going to kind of go
into each individual folder
throughout the day so we have this
variable fun time
which has some easy variable assignments
some medium and then a more difficult
one let's go ahead and put let's say
five minutes on the clock here
five minutes on the clock we'll see how
far we can get in those five minutes
then we're going to go over it together
remember today's review so this is your
first time joining us that's okay if you
if these are a little bit difficult give
it your best and then we're going to go
over it together remember it's we get
more out of analysis than we do often
trying to solve all right five minutes
on the clock you got this dig deep boom
variable fun time is the folder
can we do discounted hydration today uh
no
because you all getting too many channel
points it's too wild in these streets
uh where can you download this from it's
on our discord follow materials channel
exclamation point discord if you're not
on discord yet
either one that's on your end yeah it's
on your unfortunately
all right you got this folks dig deep
we'll go over it together
well office bowers be a vaude everything
is always a vod here on twitch for 60
days automatically you can always come
back
i've been trying to do much better with
youtube so pretty much every the next
day everything will be on youtube we do
have a one day delay due to being
partnered on twitch so i try to get it
on youtube the next day the wonderful
thing about watching on youtube is that
my youtube channel is not monetized at
all so you can watch the full however
long this goes without ads
vanessa do exclamation point slides and
i'll give you the link to the slides for
today
[Music]
uh gaming is on the follow along
materials channel
make sure you agree to the rules first
or else you won't see the channels
bro dang i think i actually did it hey
congrats bro it's awesome
on the first try hey
taco you probably didn't agree to the
rules then
uh my anki sessions every day take about
one one to two hours is that too much um
i think it depends on where you're at i
think if you're still actively adding
cards one to two hours can be hit i
really i really shoot for like half an
hour to
half an hour to an hour
but every person person's different and
how much review they want to do if you
feel like you're still getting a lot of
value out of it then sure keep it up but
if you don't feel like you're getting as
much value you can definitely
reduce your car like your deck size so
that you have less to review
jason derulo hey thank you for the fire
get the subs hope you're doing well
thank you for being here
eric this is uh the variable fun time
folder
hey jason rulo
can i restart my anki album
algorithm so i can start from the
beginning you can
you can just create a new study deck and
that'll do it from the beginning for you
do
alrighty folks come on back come on back
let's try doing this together
i've been so focused on what i still
have to learn that i forgot how far
we've come made a super simple custom
link tree for my husband's business
you're so impressed texting it everybody
knows that's awesome hey i think that's
really important you got to realize that
if you've been with us since the
beginning you have some tremendous
phenomenal skills that you can be put
into practice right now i love that it's
huge
cool all right folks let's take a look
at this together
all right create a variable and assign
it a number
so let's just go ahead and create a
variable called num let num equal
i'm going to say like 15
15 create a variable and assign a number
so we've created our variable or
declared our variable here assign it the
value of 15
nice
minus 10 from that number so it's going
to do num
equals num minus
minus 10. what are some other things we
could do to subtract 10
i did num equals num minus 10 what else
could i have done
yeah okay also the minus equals so i
could do num
minus equals 10 that would have also
worked cool
it's up to you which way you want to go
a little bit more readable
all right so we did num equals num10
print that number to the console so
whenever i say print to the console in
javascript what do i mean by that chat
yeah console.log nice
console.log and we're going to throw in
num
if we were to open this in the browser
we'd be able to see that console log
come through
so if we go to my index.html here
what i'm going to look for
before i before i even try and open this
what what am i looking for to make sure
that my javascript will run
what am i looking for to make sure that
my javascript will run
yeah i'm looking at that source the
script so i have the script type
javascript source equals javascript
slash main.js and so if we look my
main.js is inside of a javascript folder
so this route looks correct like this
this is a correct source here so if i
was to go ahead and open this in my
browser
and open up the inspector
and we looked at this lovely console
boom we can see five being logged to the
console and that looks good to me
alrighty let's keep pushing here
create a variable that holds a value
from the input
add 25 to that number alert the number
all right so
how can we get the value
out of an input
out of an input not not like an
alert prompt or anything like that out
of an input that's already in the dom
yeah we can use our our query selector
with the value so
let's go ahead and say let
um
num
from
input equal
and then we're gonna do our document
dot query selector
and we're going to grab it from the
input so i'm just going to say input
and i want the value out of that input
let's go take a look real quick let's
make sure there's only one input on the
page
there's only one input on the page if i
want it to be more specific
to be more specific let's say we don't
know if anybody else on our team
is going to add more inputs what could
we use
dance dance revolution exactly we could
grab this id here if we want it
let's go back
instead of it just being the input we
can do
dance dance revolution beautiful
and uh what am i missing here
what am i missing here there's something
i'm missing right here
yeah i need the octothorpe because it's
an i
d
great that's gonna say hey
go into the dom or the document
find something that has the idea of
dance dance revolution
and then get the value out of it
and so when i say the document that's
often something very tricky for folks to
understand
what's happening when you're seeing
something in your browser
is that you have
received an html file
a css file maybe some javascript files
and your browser reads all those files
and makes a rendering that you see in
your browser so it's not an exact copy
of your html it's not an exact copy of
your css it's kind of like a painter
that's looking at it at its beautiful
model and then paints that model right
you would never say that the painting is
the model it is a rendering of the model
and so the beautiful thing here is when
we're in the browser the browser reads
the html file it reads the css file and
paints a drawing or paints a render well
javascript can come along and get access
to that render and so when i say
document i'm saying hey give me access
to that rendering of the html and css
look inside that rendering for something
that has the idea of dance dance
revolution
and give me the value that it has
all right give me the value that it has
and so i think this is one of the most
tricky bits when folks are first
learning javascript is that they'll look
at this
they'll go to like their inspector
they'll look in the elements and they
they look at this and they think that
this is the html
this is not the html what is this chat
what is this here
this is the dom it's that rendering
right
like if if grandma was gonna make some
soup right grandma has a recipe
for famous famous tofu soup
it's tofu
water
and salt
and so we're making grandma's
famous
tofu soup
right
and then i have a jerk of a cousin
that comes along
and throws a tomato
into the soup
does grandma's recipe
like like
automatically update
right like do we see like
grandma
that's really dark
grandma from the beyond like updates the
recipe to include
the the tomato
no right like this is just the rendering
of the recipe
this is just the rendering of the recipe
we could
dump out this soup and then paint
a new rendering right we could just read
the we could just read the instructions
again
all right we can just read the
instructions again and rebuild the soup
it's the same thing with what we're
seeing in the browser
we read the html we read the css and we
built our soup our rendering of the
recipe our rendering of those files
and javascript is our what
javascript is our what
javascript is our jerk of a cousin that
can come along
and throw the tomato into the mix our
jerk of a cousin could make this red or
jerk of a cousin can like remove this
our jerk of a cousin could like put
something in the input right
but as soon as we refresh the page
all of that stuff goes away and we
re-read the recipe we reread the html
reread the css and build what we see so
javascript can always manipulate the dom
but the dom is the rendering that we
have from the beginning
cool
all right so we got the the value or the
number from the input
what's the thing that we know that we
should always do when we're trying to
get numbers
we're trying to get numbers specifically
we're trying to get numbers from the dom
what's something that we should always
do
yeah make sure that we actually have a
number
exactly so i'm gonna wrap this in a
and i'm gonna make sure that we make
sure that we actually have
a number
and so
i wrapped this document that query
selector dance dance revolution which i
am a b step by the way when do we got to
do a ddr stream uh i don't get the value
out and then i'm going to make sure that
that value is actually a number that's
all it's going to do is make sure we
actually have a number
pokemon said proof
let's just say max steps when the saints
go marching in is not for the faint of
heart
alright
so now we know that we've gotten the
value out of the input
we know that it's a number
i feel a little bit more confident
adding to that now that i know we have a
number so i'm going to do num
from input
plus equals 25.
i like this a little bit better because
i know that i'm dealing with a number
here
charlie's been holding ddr dancehalls
are you talking about oh yeah like um
uh moist critical right
i think it was him in uh
i figured what their name is emeru we're
doing it
boys got some moves i saw the i saw the
i saw the moves
that they
they know what they're doing
they were hitting they're hitting it
they knew what they were doing i i
thought they were i thought it was cap
but now
boys showed up put in the work
all right
we got we got 25 we added 25 to the
number we got from the input and we want
to alert this number
alert num
from
input
beautiful
what if the number is not numerical then
we're screwed uh but it's not something
we could definitely control for but this
is just kind of this is just for us to
to review the concepts yeah
but yeah this this uh lovely
this lovely thing is assuming that we
we're we're dealing with good faith here
all right
alert from num from input let's go ahead
and save this let's go back let's
refresh
let's see if we get a value 25
wait a minute
why did it alert 25 right away
why did why
what why did it alert 25
because we told it to but 25 we're
supposed to add 25
the number from the input
yeah it's not waiting for anything right
it's not waiting for anything so this
this alert
right
and this value from the input this
happens on page load it's not inside of
like a click event it's not inside
something that would wait so what we're
doing is we're grabbing the value from
the input which is nothing and then
we're adding 25 to nothing so that's why
we see
25 be alerted right because the the
input didn't have a value on page load
our user wasn't fast enough to put
something in so we can add 25s to it so
normally we want to put these like
inside of like say like a click event or
something like that to where
we would only get the value out of the
input after we have clicked
yeah
alrighty
uh so all the reviews and our sundays
are always for vods on uh always as vods
on twitch for 60 days
no
depends on how we're doing on youtube if
i put it on youtube or not
youtube's super finicky
i'm trying it out i i really like we're
getting so many new folks from youtube
it's definitely something i want to
figure out i don't really get youtube
and our content's really not youtube
friendly um since we do like since since
we spend like a lot of time like
um
talking at the beginning of each class
like think about like a youtube video
you get like right into the meat that's
not what we do right and so youtube's
pretty hard to grow on
but uh we're getting a lot of folks from
youtube so i'm trying to figure it out
i'm trying to figure out like how we can
do better there you see me making like
all these like silly thumbnails and
stuff like that just cuz i want to see
what works what doesn't work i'm trying
like really clickbaity stuff i'm trying
like normal stuff so you're just gonna
see me while out on youtube for a little
while while i figure it out but we're
literally getting like hundreds of new
folks from uh youtube uh so that's been
really cool to see
so as always
all of our classes go up on youtube and
if you want to if you really want to
like support 100 devs right now like
where we're getting most of our focuses
from youtube give the youtube videos a
thumbs up let them play right
let them play keep that that retention
up
yeah
cool
yeah we we could break them up into
smaller chunks we could like remove all
the all the fluff but i really do want
like for me like it wasn't like youtube
was never like a thing that like i was
focusing on i just seen that it's helped
a lot of people like find us and so it's
like all right
i still want the full classes on youtube
like i'll never kind of like
i'll never like edit out stuff it'll
always be the full class the only thing
i edit right now is the like beginning
where it's just like starting because i
do want it to be a place for folks to
come and if they miss class they're
going through catch-up crew uh so yeah
it's trying to find the balance i'm
gonna start mixing in content that's not
just class stuff
kiku
kiko said the youtube algorithm blessed
you hey there we go
yeah
yeah and and youtube the other the other
big benefit of youtube is that i i i
haven't monetized the channel uh so
there's no ads
so i know a lot of folks that are
catching up on twitch
these are three hour plus classes their
reviews are really long there's a lot of
ad time so you can always watch on
youtube without ads
will you put class on oldie fans i hope
so
all right so we did our
easy we got the number from the input we
added 25 to it
we alerted it
in different ghosts hey thank you for
the 10 gifted subs thank you for being
here hope you're doing well
that's wild thank you so much i
appreciate you
hey thank you so much different hope
you're doing well
i don't think we're gonna be able to
have our
our mod call today so i'm glad you're
glad you're here that i get to get a
chance to see
all right
last bit here we had this hard bit
um let's look at this hard bit
create a variable that holds the h1
so let's go and create a variable that
holds the h1
const h1 equals and we're gonna say
document.queryselector
h1 right so this is a variable that is
holding h1 the cool thing is that we can
have variables that hold our dom
elements which is really helpful
especially if you're doing stuff like a
lot like you're targeting the same
elements over and over again uh you can
you can actually just go ahead and grab
the element and store it in a variable
so now whenever i went to h1 i can just
say h1 all right
add an event listener to the element
that console logs the sum of the two
previous variables
so i think to me that seems like i want
to go ahead and add an event listener to
the thing that we just created so the h1
so i'll do h1 dot add event listener
when i say it's going to be a click
and i want to run the function
jam
on it beautiful let's go ahead and
create our function
jam on it
and uh actually let's name it
appropriately
add two
we'll have we'll call it add two
and add two
cool and we're going to console.log the
sum of the two previous variables i'm
just going to go ahead and console.log
and i believe it was num
plus
num from input
cool
i like that
let's go and see if this works as it is
and then we might change it up a little
bit
all right so there's our
alert look at our console
we had the original five that was
console logged but now we should see
another console log when we click on the
h1
first try
all right looks good
right we added 25 and five so that
should give us 30. it worked on click
um but i wanted what i want to do now
is i want to
i want to get the value of the input as
part of the click event
wild how confusing this part used to be
thanks leon hey glad you're here mango
glad to hear that yeah cool let's go
back let's take a look um what i want to
do is i want everything inside of this
event listener now
so i'm going to get the value from the
input
and i'm going to add 25 to it
copy
boom
let's add 25 to it
let's put that in here
all right it's going to comment out
these other lines up here just so that
they don't run still
boom
boom save it so now our original num up
here should still be five
and then down here we should be able to
get the value from the input
add 25 to it
and then console log it
so
we know that the original num the
original num is always gonna be five
so let's make
let's put 10 into the input that should
be 10 plus 25 should be 35 plus 5 which
is 40. so this is working let's refresh
let's put in 10.
let's click
up num from input is not defined all
right let's take a look let's look at
this error
num from input is not defined main.js
line 18. let's take a look
ah what does this mean why why am i
getting an error that says num from
input is not defined
because it's not defined yet due to that
scope right it is out of scope
num from input is now defined but inside
this function but it would only exist
inside of that function so up here we
need to we need to comment this out
because we no longer are declaring
number from input
at this end this like global scope right
so it only exists here
that value did not hoist out of this
scope to uh to where the global would
have had access to it therefore num from
input was undefined and since that alert
was trying to run on page load we're
going to get that error let's go ahead
and try again
refresh all right that error is gone
let's put in 10
and click on click me
beautiful 40. second try
you cannot hoist let yeah of course
what we were saying though
you sure you could again absolutely
how do i get the browser to open this
so you can just open the html file
inside of your
browser so you can literally drag your
html file to that browser and would open
um we have it so that when we right
click we can
um when we right click on our html file
we have it so we can open it in the
browser but uh if you're brand new
you've never kind of worked this i would
definitely work through our first
javascript class because we go in detail
how to do a lot of this stuff you know
but if you want you can just drag that
html file to the browser or you can um
have the open in browser plugin like we
have so i have this lovely
plugin
which is called openin browser by tech
er so if you click this little like
these little boxes here on vs code you
can search for open in browser and then
that'll just give you the ability to
right click on your html files and open
in the browser
these will be posted on discord
absolutely so all my solutions always go
up on discord so when we're done today
we'll see it all go up on on discord as
well
i dragged the file into this window and
it closed the stream and that's pretty
funny
are we ready to use prettier yet um
i think that you if you wanted to you
could um you'll notice that i
i have prettier but i don't use it while
i'm teaching
and i don't really recommend it when you
first first start out but i think we're
at the point now where if you wanted to
you could start using prettier which
will help make your code a little bit
cleaner it helps
with all like the little little things
that help your code look better and all
the little best practices but it does it
automatically
and so when my students are first
starting out i really don't like them to
use plug-ins or things that help them do
stuff until they get comfortable with it
and so
if you're just writing javascript feel
free to use it now
i wouldn't have it on while we're doing
node yet again so you just get used to
it on your own
and then turn it back on
so yeah you can do it i think it just in
the beginning it could be confusing for
my students or they're not really
they're not learning it by themselves
and then the problem is that the reason
why this is a problem is because i've
had students go into technical
interviews they're not allowed to use
their vs code they have to use something
like coderpad or or heaven forbid like a
a um like a google doc they don't have
those tools and they're not used to
having to type things out manually and
they get into trouble
and so that's why i'd like you to do
stuff the
harder way or the more manual way first
get comfortable with it and then
introduce things to make your lives
easier as we get further along
all right folks
like i said all these solutions will
always be on discord afterwards so if
you missed a piece you need to look at
something don't worry you can grab it
after
cool let's keep pushing folks
all right
we eventually want to make decisions
right
right we actually want to make decisions
in our code we want to do stuff if
something is true we want to do
something if something's false we want
to do something else and so to make
those decisions
we have to understand about comparison
and so
in javascript we can compare stuff we
can compare numbers to numbers we can
also do things like strings to strings
and so here you're seeing me trying to
compare nine to nine which would be true
seven to three which would be false but
string hello does equal string hello and
that is true and so to figure out this
comparison we have to understand that
there are kind of three different things
that we're looking at
when we are using one equal sign that
one equal sign has a very specific name
it is a what
one equal sign in javascript is always a
what
yeah it's always an assignment operator
whenever you see one equal sign you are
trying to assign something to something
else so here i am trying to assign the
letter x to be equal
to the value of three or sorry i'm
trying to assign x to be the value of
three
whenever we have two or three equal
signs we're looking at comparison
right we're looking at comparison and so
with two equal signs we're just looking
for what with two equal signs we're just
looking for what
value exactly and when we have three
equal signs we're looking for value and
what
type exactly this uh i didn't see who
said it but somebody said this is making
me realize i have to review this stuff
exactly that's why we do it so we do
these review classes we're getting in
our spaced repetition we're seeing the
stuff that we've all seen before that's
why we're here i love it
cool value and type all right
so two equal signs is value three equal
signs is value and
type so here we can see all right
does three equal eight in value no
right two equal signs is just value
that's false
now
this one right here is the weird one
where we're saying does number three
equal
string three well what's the first thing
we have to compare
since there's three equal signs we're
going to look at something first and
then something second the first thing
we're going to look at is what
value
right same we're gonna look at value so
does number three
equal string three
in value
welcome grog
it does
number three and and strength are the
same value they're both three
right they're both three
however with three cosines we're also
looking at type does number three equal
string three and type
no
one is a number
and the other is a string
so this is a false statement
number three does not equal string three
in both
value
and
type
cool
down here three equals does number three
equal number three and value and type
yes they're both the value of three they
are both the type of number
where can i find this picture in the
slides
you can do exclamation point slides if
you need the slides
cool then there are some other like
trickier ones that we saw we saw the not
equal right whenever we have the bang
we're saying not equal so does 3
not equal 8 that is a true statement 3
does not equal 8 that is true
and then this is the this is the tricky
one
right here this is the really tricky one
so i'm going to type it out here
does number three
not equal
string three
in both number and
type sorry value and type
this number three not equal string three
in both value and type and this is a
true
statement
because the number three
does not equal
string 3 in both value and type they
both have the same value but they do not
have the same type so it is not equal in
both
value and type true statement
all right number three is not equal in
both value and type that is a true
statement
so true exactly tricky tricky all right
and then we down here we have our
comparisons right is three greater than
eight no is three less than eight yes
is three greater than or equal to eight
no is three less than or equal to eight
yes
so one of the things i always ask folks
to do
is to
go back and play through this slide
change x to eight uh change it to a
different number play with it make sure
each one of these things can work and
remember you can always test inside of
your inspector
so if you go to console
you can then type in any of these like
three
equal
equals eight right and it'll give you
the the false back so you can definitely
come back to the slide you can throw in
different numbers and you can practice
your true and false statements
cool
now we we have all this comparison stuff
so we can actually do conditionals
right and so conditionals enable us
to
make decisions
and so if whatever is inside the
parentheses is true
we will do what is inside of the curly
braces
and so here we can show you the full
chain that you can have as well
you can have ifs
else ifs and then a singular
else you can have as many else ifs as
you would like and the reason why we
have these chains is that we can see all
right
if what is inside the if is true we will
do what's inside the curly braces and
then we stop
but
if what is inside these parentheses is
false we will look at the else if
if what is inside the parenthesis is
true then we do what's inside the curly
braces and we stop
and we can have as many else's as we
like so we could check our if then our
elsif our elsif our elsif our elsif our
elsif our elsif or elsif our elsif our
elsif or elsif or
our elsif our elsif or elsif or
our elsif our our elsif our elf our our
elsif our elsif our elsif our elsif or
elsif or
ever
all right
crispy nugget yeah we got to get the
collab going
so we can have our if
and then we can have as many elses as we
want
as soon as one thing is true
we stop
then this is why we're here for eight
hours exactly
and then if everything in this chain was
false
right if everything in this chain was
false well then
the else automagically runs
right it just runs it doesn't need to
check anything it just
runs
cool
so let's take a look at this let's take
a look at an example
here we have kant's pizza
equals dominoes now
why
why is pizza here const
what does this const thing mean
yeah
this is never going to change we're not
going to reassign it it can't be
reassigned can't stop won't stop
rockefeller records i came to get down i
came to get down
my pizza choice will always be dominoes
it's not going to change so i use const
cool all right
so
here we have our conditional logic set
up
we're going to check to see if pizza
equals papa john's no
so since it's not papa john's
we
will move on to the elsa
right since
pizza does equal dominoes we wind up
console logging all aboard the train to
flavor town and then we're done
right we're done we stop
we never make it to the else
but what if
what if we were a noob
and we spelled domino's wrong what if up
here we had spelled it with an e
and we spelled it with an e what would
be printed to the console in this case
yeah
what are you even doing with your life
would show up right because uh dominoes
with an e this would be a false
statement
dominoes with an e this would be a false
statement so the else
would automatically run doesn't need to
check anything and we would get what are
you even doing with your life print it
to the console nice
and different which is what i ask myself
every day
ain't that the truth
taco i'm not going to frame it in the
way that you did but is code academy a
good a good compliment to this course
yeah we actually assign it for homework
uh so part of your homework was to do
all the free stuff
i don't ever recommend anything that's
paid you don't have to spend any money
to learn this stuff and the trap that a
lot of folks fall into is they feel like
if they pay for something they get more
value out of it when it's just not true
what you do get is a dopamine rush that
tells you ooh since i paid for something
that means i'm accomplishing things when
it's just not true so don't pay for
anything codecademy has some amazing
free stuff that you can use we've
actually assigned it for homework but
that goes for any other thing but like i
said always go deep not wide i'm going
to give you the things i want you to
learn with
not because i'm like randomly picking
them out of the air but because i've
seen it help thousands of students learn
i've already up
like i've been doing this for 10 years
i've already up i've assigned
stuff that didn't work stuff that didn't
help in the long run things that were
that were bad uh you don't have to
experience that i'm only going to give
you bangers and so use the things that i
give you go deep not wide and you'll be
well served towards the end
cool all right
what's the danger of assignment versus
comparison
also shout out to all my old students
that i up with thank you for
paving the way uh for us to have bangers
only
and i appreciate y'all
y'all real was
yeah the danger of assignment versus
comparison is one equal sign
versus two or three
if inside of one of your conditionals
you accidentally use just one equal sign
that will always be assignment and
you'll run into a truthy statement so
where this could evaluate to be true
even though you're trying to do
comparison so be careful
one is
assignment the other is comparison right
and if you get those mixed up you can
run into some issues
all right
we can also have multiple conditions
that we're checking at one time so
if
in this case your name is leon
and your status equals ballen well then
you would give a lovely
wink at the camera
beautiful
this is a double condition where both
the left hand side
and the right hand side must be true
all right as long as both are true then
you get that lovely wink at the camera
for free exactly that wink was for free
that like no no come on no charge here
uh and
then
you could also have an or and so we'll
see that the and is the double
ampersand right and then the or is the
double pipe character right so in this
case only one has to be true so if the
day's saturday which is not true or the
day is sunday which is true then we get
the weekend
can you show us a ternary real quick
sure
so ternary is a is a fancy conditional
basically
and so
we can in here inside the console we can
do some sort of statement right
like is uh two
greater than one
right if it's true
then we'll say
math
is real
and if it's not true we'll say
i've been
i've been spending
too much
time
on youtube
there we go cool all right so here's the
ternary
right we evaluate
what happens before
the question mark
and it'll either evaluate to true
or false
and so if it evaluates the true we do
the thing on the left-hand side of the
colon so we got math is real because two
is greater than one
but if that had to evaluate it to false
then we would have done what was on the
right hand side
of the colon
now you don't need to worry about
ternaries for right now
probably the main place that you'll use
ternaries is when you're solving your
code wars
and when you're doing stuff in line but
for right now conditionals are fine
don't worry
all right so we want to practice our
conditionals but we are at the top of
the hour remember we're here for a long
time
right
we're here for a long time not just a
good time
and so we're gonna go ahead and put five
minutes on the clock
we're gonna take our break if you're
able please get up move around hydrate
all right let your hands rest give a
quick little stretch
and i'll see you all in five alrighty
let's go ahead and we're gonna move on
to the next assignment which is the age
checker right
right the age checker so let's go ahead
and take a look i'm going to go ahead
and close this one we were just working
on there is a lovely age checker here
folder and open up that javascript file
and there's a bunch of conditionals i
want you to write out so
uh if they're under the age of 16 tell
them they cannot drive they're under 18
tell them they can't hate from outside
the club because they can't even
tell them they can hate from outside the
club because they can't even get in if
they're under 21 tell them they cannot
drink if they're 25 something they got
rental cars affordably so i want
conditionals that check the age right
that check the age
and then we'll tell them these different
things
based on the age and if you want you can
take the code that we just did to
accomplish the harder
section i'm going to go ahead and put
five minutes on the clock here go ahead
do your best to build out this big
conditional then we'll go over it
together you got this
console logs are fine yeah console logs
are fine here
shout out to all the the subs today i
really appreciate it
a lot of primers spinning all that jeff
bezos's bucks
jack tree darth wolf taco meat
indifferent shabbos iford lexing game
remember the human
tekken climb pop quiz jason derulo
michael the learner six stack earthy
jade shantendo curtis learn project
kevin
letterman
oh i can't see that one
poppy frank silky smooth android wrist
beans quirky the cactus gopher
hollow hey callu in the hey i hope
you're still here good to see you
thank you for the sub hello
david codes21
why levy all dark and coding hey thank
you for the 10 months
elbow grease hey thank you
get out of here christophe said i was in
a 12k bootcamp and they were using my
curriculum
i would be surprised it's all out there
for free i know somebody's going to
start using it
hey roy glad to hear that that's why i
say it yeah
mandalorian you can't post links in chat
um share it with me in the ask leon
channel
sheesh we're going to get the apis later
today you can use apis to build a news
tracking website probably
hey no worries dave thank you
thanks for being here
all right folks about two minutes left
we're gonna go over this together
i'm going to go over local storage today
we can maybe touch on it when we get the
apis i don't think i actually have it
planned in the slides for today but if
it's something folks want to go over i'm
open to it
we'll get to the end if there's any like
bigger things that we didn't cover that
folks take a peek at we can definitely
do that
uh grim you're just checking to see how
old they are so have like a variable
that holds their age
and if that value is uh
less than 16 you're gonna have a
condition that says they can't drive
are you gonna hit slido again today yeah
so if you use the slido you can throw
your questions in there i think when we
come back from our longer break i'll
take a few minutes to go through the top
slido questions
kimmy said done and shocked hey i love
it i love doing these reviews for folks
that have been with us for a while and
they come back and they're they're
crushing it a little bit i love it
just confirming are there plans to do
more cohorts after this one there are no
plans to do another cohort after this
one yet because we're just halfway
through this one
um yeah so you can always join this one
though you can always join the ketchup
crew
yeah we haven't made any decisions for
the future yet
all right folks come on back
any advice for devs chasing the devops
stream go watch mastermind streams
mastermind does like similar to what we
do kind of like uh a free experience
free boot camp online but they cover
more devops stuff so they're also a
great uh great person great instructor
definitely go
watch them
[Music]
all right folks come on back let's take
a look at this together
all right
so what we want to do is we want to go
ahead and
build just a conditional here that's
going to check
their age
let's go ahead and just start with our
conditional
um
so let's just go ahead and build it out
here i'm going to come down here if
and we're going to say age is less than
16.
we are going to console
console.log
and we're going to grab this thing here
they cannot drive boom
they cannot drive
all right next
we need an elsif
so else if
oh that
was i'll sit else
if there we go we have our elsif and
then inside this elsif we are going to
say if age is less than 18
and then we'll do our lovely console log
and inside this console log we'll say
they can't hate from outside the club
because they can't even get in
and copy that into here
boom
all right
uh we're have we're noticing here that
this string
we're noticing that this string
uh right here
is causing us some trouble what could we
do to not run into this trouble
yeah we need to escape it
we can go ahead and escape
boom
boom there we go
awesome
someone said we need something that
covers 17 this will cover 17 though
because if they're 17
right
they won't see this
they will see this one here
right they'll see the
below so we're covering even the gaps
because those gaps are still less than
that number
right
so they had put in 17 this wouldn't be
true you'd move on to this one
all right so you don't need the uh
the and
cool
all right
let's go ahead and do another elsif i'm
just going to copy this one make it a
little bit easier here i definitely do
recommend always typing these out
just to get used to the syntax we're
gonna say less than 21
and we're going to say if they're less
than 21
they cannot drink
they cannot drink beautiful
let's do our next elsif here
under 25.
and if they're under 25
they
cannot rent cars
affordably
then if they are under
uh tell them they cannot rent fancy
cards fancy cars
cannot rent
fancy cars
affordably
and then if they are i always mess this
up if they are over 30
all right so they're if they're over 30
i'll tell them that there's nothing left
to look forward to
let's just go and do an else
and say console log
uh nothing left to look forward to
which we all know is a lie
we all know it's a lie
uh once once you once you're over 30
once you hit 35
renting fancier cars with cheaper
insurance becomes a thing uh you can you
can run for president
right you can run for president in the
u.s and uh you can always learn how to
code
right so there we go we got we got we
got fancy car rentals learning how to
code and becoming president and you know
what they kind of all fit in the same
thing because you learn how to code you
get the money to rent the fancy cars
and then
you use the money to bankroll your
presidency so really this is a boot camp
on how to become president
cool all right
when you make it as president i want to
be secretary of education okay you
remember me
come back like leon secretary of
education you got this
all right so we got all of our
conditionals here
um
i feel pretty good with it we have our
ifs we have our elsis we have our else
we did have this harder which was to to
um set up an event listener and so let's
do that real quick let's just do the
event listener way
um
do the event listener way here
on a click of the h1 so document
dot query selector
and we're going to select the h1 then
we're going to say add event listener
we're going to do click
we're going to call a function called
uh check
age
then we're going to have our function
that's going to check age
check age beautiful
and the very first thing is we're going
to get the value from the input so we're
going to say let age equal
we're going to go to the
document.query
selector and we're going to go to the
input
and we're going to grab the value
and we're going to make sure that this
value
we're going to make sure that this value
is a number
we're going to wrap it up just like we
did with the last one oh imagine doing
something before and then doing it again
huh
interesting all right so we set up our
click event
on the h1 we're going to call the check
age function we're going to grab the age
out of the input and then we can just
join our conditional from up here
boom
give it up
super reviews are the best i feel big
brain today hey i love that
all right let's save this and see what
we have going on
here's the inspect oh we didn't open it
let me open it from the html file
[Music]
boom open in the browser
let's open up the console
no errors let's go ahead and do 27.
check
they cannot rent a fancy cars affordably
for try
all right i think this is pretty good i
think we got got everything we need here
and take a look at the code again
we have the event listener we had from
the exact same um exact same event
listener and function setup that we had
from the previous example
um we're selecting the h1 when we click
on it we're running a function called
check age here's a lovely function for
check age the first thing we do is get
the value out of the input and store it
in the variable age and then we have all
of our conditional logic that tells us
what gets printed to the console
cool questions while we're here remember
i always share all of my code
on discord after these reviews so
you don't have to be panicky typing up
everything if you missed something or
you didn't get to the push work i'll
always share the solution afterwards
the instructions said put it in a
paragraph let me see if i i don't read
too well all right put the result of the
conditional in the paragraph okay
so we can do that
so let's go ahead and grab the paragraph
uh let's look
um
it's just a paragraph there's only one
so
let's go ahead and say
uh
const p equals
document dot query selector
p
so now the
the um
the
dom element is stored in my variable p
and so now i can just come down here
and i'm just going to go ahead and
change all of these to p equals
all right p
dot inner
text equals
there we go so now what that should do
instead of console logging it should put
text inside the paragraph for each one
of these
and um
i forgot my
parentheses at the end so let's jump to
the end here
all right let's do it this way boom boom
i don't have gaps here
there we go cool
all right let's see if this works
zul hey welcome all right let's go ahead
and take a look see if this works and
then we'll go over how i did it
27 again
check
all right second try
all right they cannot rent fancy cars
affordably it's working it's being put
in the paragraph into the dom
and so
what i did is i put the
document.queryselectorp
into a variable called p why did i do
that why did i put this into a variable
called p
just to keep our code a little bit more
dry exactly uh so i don't have the
constantly typing document the query
selector feed document the query says
repeat document query sector p right
and then on max i can just hold down
command
and wherever i kick whenever i click i
get a cursor
right so i get a lovely cursor wherever
i click
and then i can just start typing there
so i just hold down command uh on your
machine will be slightly different if
you're like windows or new linux
but for me it's just command hold down i
click and then i can delete type to
wherever i want
yeah alt on windows there you go
cool and so now i set it up to use inner
text on all of these there are other
things that we could have done text
content there's like all these other
ways to do it but inner text is just
easy we did that
alrighty
we're good on this one let's keep it
moving folks
yeah the console got removed because it
it said to place it in the paragraph i
forgot to read that part
so we got rid of our console logs and we
just used the um
all right
why didn't i put inner text inside of
the variable
um
i like to be able to see what's
happening in my code
and so i can quickly realize that oh i'm
putting text inside of whatever the
paragraph is
so even if there was a way to put like
enter like if we could put inner text up
here like if we wanted to
i still like to have this so i can see
what's actually happening in my code a
little bit so i know that i'm putting
text inside the paragraph this is still
readable to me
yeah
i could create like a variable it's like
p in text but it's still
a little this seems just more readable
to me
yeah
we could do a switch too yeah you could
definitely do a switch case here but
this is practicing our conditionals yeah
uh what color theme do you use in vs
code i use a theme specifically for
folks that are color blind
i am not colorblind but quite a few of
the folks that
are part of 100 devs are and so i use a
theme specifically for that
oh
interlocks with the raid hey hope you're
doing well thanks for the raid
how was the stream today
what are you all up to
i saw the the sigma grind was uh in full
force today
how are you all up to
what are you all up to what are you
working on
welcome welcome raiders
uh so welcome welcome back uh i was i
was kind of hoping that you would still
be live when we were done today because
uh sundays are typically days that we
can catch you with a raid uh so i
appreciate the raid coming this way
stream is good sigma game dev hey i love
it
um
so yeah today we are doing a javascript
review class so we're going through
every single thing that we've ever
touched on javascript all the way from
how to pro like what a program is
to variables conditionals loops
functions everything we've already
touched javascript-wise all the way up
to like how to actually interview so if
you have any interest in javascript and
maybe you've touched some javascript in
the past but you want some review that's
what we're up to today taking it slow
and enjoying ourselves
asking a lot of questions
and so yeah good to see you all
i always appreciate when you swing by
uh as i've always said i'm i'm i'm
always lurking
it's definitely my favorite channel to
have on while i'm working i get inspired
to like do and write code so let me go
let's go ahead and do a shout out just
because i i think most of us
know the the glory of your stream but we
have a lot of new folks recently so if
you haven't given them a follow
please please give them a follow
definitely one of the best places to to
hang out on twitch specifically if
you're kind of just coding right you
want to get some get some work done you
don't want to be by yourself definitely
hang out in that channel
shut up command didn't work hold on
let's see
i'm just gonna type it out
there we go
all right if you haven't given a follow
please go give them a follow hey
cool please go give them a follow if you
haven't it really is one of the best
places to be on on twitch honestly and
you'll always see me lurking in there
cool all right uh will we catch a touch
on apis today yeah we're going through
everything today so we're learning the
basics again we're reviewing the basics
the big four variables functions loops
conditionals then we're going to move on
to our arrays and objects once we get
the objects we're touching apis once we
get through apis uh we're going to move
into kind of the the the stuff that we
talked about last week in terms of
interview prep how to do car how to do
prep how to do
everything we need to be ready to go
into the hunt
take plenty of breaks you know how we do
melody we're taking our breaks to the
top of every hour we're going to take
our time where when we hit the three
hour mark we're going to take our 10
minute break so folks can grab some food
do a little bit longer of a stretch
all right you ever do leak code
questions we do
um so we we do we do code wars every day
literally if you're part of a hundred
dabs you do a code wars every day
and then as we get closer to the hunt
and we're actually getting to the point
where we're actually interviewing uh i
have a 50-day like plan that i worked
through last cohort where we did a
coding challenge every day and we built
up all the principles we would need to
carry on to do larger and larger harder
and harder more algorithmically
demanding
uh practice problems so
we'll do code wars
we'll do our 50-day plan to go from kind
of like zero to
knowing everything about i don't know
hash maps and complexity and all that
fun stuff and then we'll start
introducing leak codes as well
cool
all right folks welcome welcome raiders
glad to hear that you had a good stream
uh if you want to review any javascript
hang out with us that's what we're doing
today
all right
so we just went through our conditional
review let's jump back into the slides
all of our materials are on our discord
exclamation point discord when you join
there's a follow along materials channel
you can grab everything we're doing
today if you just want the slides you
can do exclamation point slides here in
chat and have full access to the slides
that we're moving through
our promises coming in this next week's
class yeah we're going to do uh promises
async await all that fun stuff this week
and then node so node and async this
week
all right we have the third of the big
four we've done variables we've done
conditionals now it's time to do
functions chat what are functions
um
what are functions
where to party at
[Laughter]
yeah there's sets of instructions
there's sets of instructions
so functions are simple sets of
instructions they're meant to be
reusable uh once we get into like big
brain territory uh we will go ahead and
have functions that really just perform
one action and they really do form the
basic building blocks of our programs
so our functions kind of break down into
two key pieces we have the function
declaration
and then we have the function call so
similar to how we had declaring of our
variables we can declare our functions
as well and all that means is that we
have a space in memory
and when we declare a function
we create a space in memory
for that function where all those
instructions exist
and then when we call the function we're
saying use that function that was stored
in
memory
now when we call a function we have the
ability to pass in arguments
and arguments can be passed into our
functions
and they get passed into buckets called
parameters you can think of parameters
just as like our variables that only
exist inside of this function now
why go through this step why should we
have
arguments and parameters and why should
we be able to pass in values into a
function like why why is that such like
a key part of functions
mike you get it right off the jump
exactly
reusability right reusability if we want
to be able to reuse our functions over
and over again we want to be able to
pass new information into the functions
so that we can use that data with those
functions it's all about reusability
exactly cool
so here i have a very simple function i
have a function declaration called yell
and i have a function call
and you can see that i am calling the
function what what lets you know that
i'm trying to run the function
no
[Music]
i gotta disable that key
and we've done a lot already
this is wild
i'm just like just ripping through those
i'm like damn we did all that already
all right
we still got plenty more to go
i got i did all right so here
i have a very simple function
i have my function call
and how can i tell that i'm actually
trying to run the function what gives it
away
yeah
exactly
the the parentheses
the parentheses are how we uh
or how we know that we're actually
calling the function exactly and so
here we have hello
which is our argument that we're passing
in whenever you see a function call the
way i remember is i'm calling the
function to argue i'm going to call my
mom to argue a very healthy relationship
with my mother but we're going to use
this as an example we call the function
and we pass in our argument so here i am
calling the function yell and i am
passing in my argument of hello so this
hello
it's passed into the function wherever i
see word it's actually
hello
from the other side
all right now
we could re we could reuse this function
we can call it again we can do yell
and we could pass in
another word
goodbye
and now goodbye would fall into word
wherever we see word it's going to alert
goodbye so we can see this reusability
is this reusability of our of our
functions because we can pass in
different arguments each
time
cool
we could also have a function that takes
in multiple arguments right takes in
multiple arguments so here you can see
i'm taking in the argument of hello the
argument of goodbye
hello falls into word goodbye falls into
other word i'm able to alert hello i'm
able to alert
goodbye
cool
let's take a look at some practice here
called simple functions let's go ahead
let's open up our code i'm going to
close the code that we're just working
on we're looking for the simple
functions folder here we go simple
functions
some lovely js when i have the html file
that way i can just open it up
all right uh we got some stuff here
we're gonna create some functions that
are working with numbers we got some
slightly harder ones and we got i mean
we got a hard one so i'm gonna put let's
see
what
five minutes on the clock let's do a
little bit more let's do a little bit
more let's do let's do seven minutes on
the clock
um
this is the simple functions
simple functions simple functions
all right segments on the clock get as
far as you can go as fast as you can go
and we're gonna go over it all together
remember you don't have to listen to
these sweet sweet jams i always leave
the timer up so you know they come back
i like to answer questions while people
are going through it
you can always just meet me and then
when you see the timer run out come on
back
this is the
simple functions folder
no way togo no way
quotient is the result of the vision
explain a little bit more about variable
scope within a function
uh so functions that are declared in
that function can only exist inside that
function that's it
we declare a function inside that
function it only exists there doesn't
exist anywhere else
unless you spit it out return it somehow
um yeah
what would you suggest for someone new
to coding uh join a hundred devs i heard
it's a pretty great program i can do
exclamation point 100 devs here in chat
uh you it'll show you everything you
need to do to sign up
you will go ahead and join our discord
and there's a wonderful catch-up crew
there that'll help you get caught up
if you don't like my face
there's also free code cam odin project
whatever you do don't pay for anything
you can learn all this stuff for free
how long do you assume it takes to have
a solid grasp on typescript after
finishing our course material
um not that long to understand the
basics maybe like a like a weekend
honestly and then putting in the
practice a couple weeks or so
um i don't think it's important for you
to get a job
yeah i don't think i don't really teach
it if i thought you needed to get a job
i would teach it
um but it's just it's a nice to have
maybe but there's so many other things
you could focus on that'll actually help
you get a job that's not one of them
we said i knew nothing about coding in
january when i started 100 devs and now
i've deployed two websites for paid
freelancing clients hey i'd love to hear
that that's awesome
melfi it's our discord so you can do
exclamation point discord
hotline that's dope
yeah
how'd you find us that way
[Music]
what's the new song you play the
beginning of every youtube video
uh i actually forget the name of it it
is like a like royalty-free music that's
part of stream deck somebody's posted
the name of the video on discord i have
the song on discord i forget what it's
called though
yeah
we got some dunzos coming in
would you teach me how to code from the
beginning if i pay for it no
uh if you pay me money then i i don't
teach you
but if you if you if you come for free
then i teach you that's how it works
around these parts
um
everything is free
it'll always be free none of my content
will ever be behind a paywall education
should be free
education should be free uh so all my
educational material that has helped
hundreds of people get jobs thousands of
people learn how to code is completely
free on youtube we have a discord 30 000
plus strong that could help you learn
how to code um that want to answer your
questions that want to see you be
successful and so all that's for free
best deal ever
someone suggested that they should go on
cameo
that'd be hilarious
so
[Music]
neko chat says not going to get rich
that way i think there are plenty of
ways to get rich that don't exploit
folks that need education
just saying
there are other ways to make money
trying to better their lives i don't
think they need to be exploited for me
to make money
alrighty folks come on back
come on back
all right let's take a look at this
together a lot of little bits here let's
take a peek
all right so
we are going to move through the easy
the medium and then maybe we'll take a
look at the hard as well
so this is the simple functions
let's go ahead and work through it
together all right create a function
all right
create a function that subtracts two
numbers and alerts the difference
function
uh sub two
and alert all right just trying to make
my my function names a little bit more
readable understandable what's actually
happening i know i'm going to take in
two numbers so i'm going to call that
num1 and num2 but these are just
parameter names they can be anything i
want it could be robot and unicorn that
would work exactly the same there's
nothing special about calling this num1
or num2 just a name i could have called
it robot and unicorn it would have
worked exactly the same
all right create a function that
subtracts your numbers and alerts the
difference i'm going to say let
difference
equal
num1 minus num2. now could i have done
this inside of the alert yes but i like
the readability of then having the alert
that has the word difference in it i
could have just like joint this and put
it directly in the alert and save the
line of code but sometimes i like
readability readability
over kind of terseness
all right there we go we have our sub
alert
and
it doesn't ask us to actually call it
but i'm going to call it just to make
sure it's working so sub uh to an alert
let's pass in ten and
seven
ten and seven and let's see if this
works
great we see three
being alerted to the uh browser here so
we know that that worked because 10
minus three
sorry ten minus seven would give us
three so we know that this is working
i'm going to go ahead and comment this
out so it doesn't keep running
cool
yeah alerts the difference yeah so
disadvert not return or anything like
that
all right create a function divides
three numbers and console logs the
quotient the quotient is the result of
division so let's go ahead and create a
function here called
uh divide
three and log
and we know we're gonna pass in three
numbers i'm gonna do n one and two and
three once again we can make them
whatever we wanna make them
and then we wanna console.log the
quotient so i'm gonna do it all in one
line this time instead of doing it like
the variable and then console logging
the variable let's go ahead and do
console.log
and then we're going to do our n1
divided by n2 divided by n3
cool so that's
going to give us the quotient and we've
console logged it let's go ahead and run
this just to see if it works
divide 3 and log let's do something easy
let's do like 12
[Music]
3 12 4 3. so 12 divided by 4 should give
us 3 3 divided by 3 should give us 1. so
if this works we should see 1 in the
console
let's go back take a look let's open up
the inspector here
let's open up the console
let's refresh
and we got one for straight
all right nice
i've named my functions quick maps
all right
cool
so we have our first two functions done
and it let's go ahead and comment this
one out so it doesn't run again
create a function that multiplies three
numbers and returns the product all
right function
multi three
uh and return
cool
and we know we're gonna take in three
numbers so i'm gonna pass in
robot
unicorn
attack there we go robot unicorn attack
and we're going to multiply three
numbers and return the product so let's
go ahead and do
um let
product equal
robot
times unicorn
times attack
and then we want to return
the product
cool
let's go ahead and call our function
here
multi
three
and so let's go ahead and do um
two three
five
so two times three would be six six
times five should give us 30
and
what would happen if we just ran this as
is right now
what happened if we just ran this as is
yeah it would just kind of like poof
into thin air we wouldn't actually ever
see anything
we wouldn't actually see anything
because what would happen
is
two would get passed into robot
three would get passed into unicorn
if i would get passed into attack
we wind up doing two times three times
five
which would make product
30.
we would return product and remember the
return goes to wherever the function was
called
so it was though this does not exist
and we had 30 returned right there but
then poof it would disappear we didn't
do anything with that 30. um so one
thing we could do is we could set it
equal to a variable and then console log
that variable we could just wrap this in
a console log we could wrap in an alert
let's do the variable way first so let's
go and do let
let
um
returned
val equal
and then we can go ahead and console.log
so we could've done the console log all
on the same thing as well but
a little bit more readable here
cool so now
we should call the function
we know it's going to return the product
so this is going to disappear and it's
going to be holding like 30
right when we call it
and then we could console.log that 30.
so we know that return gets spit out to
wherever the function was called which
is down here so let's go ahead and what
we already called it so here's where we
called the function it'll run it'll spit
out the product wherever it was then
we'll console august let's go ahead and
save this
go back to our console log
30 first
all right we see here we got 30. so
let's just walk through what happens
here again
so
two gets passed into robot
three gets passed in the unicorn five
gets passed into attack we wind up with
two times three times five which is the
same thing as 30.
we're going to return 30 it's returned
to where it was called so basically we
imagine this is no longer here
and just the value of 30.
now returned value
equals 30 and we wind up console logging
that return value which is 30
boom
do we just use that to see what the
outcome is in the console for debugging
exactly yes just so we can see what's
actually happening
a lot of times we might be using this
function in conjunction with another
function so that we need to return the
values that the other function can use
it but for now we're showing it that
like we we can console.log it and get
that value
why wouldn't you use parentheses around
robot and unicorn
uh you mean
here
you could
um pemdas is in effect you can use
parentheses whenever you're doing maths
but there's no order of operations
things i'm concerned about here so i
don't have parentheses around it
yours has three lines of code i can do
it in one
flexosaurus let's go
i can wrap this in a console log if we
wanted to
but we're not there yet we'll we'll see
we'll see
we'll see arrow functioning soon
all right let's look at look at this
medium
all right create a function that takes
in three numbers
let's try a function that takes in three
three numbers
add the first two numbers and return the
remainder of dividing the sum of the
first two numbers by what
come on we've been doing this for three
hours all right come on give me a second
here all right create a function
that takes in three numbers
add the first two numbers and return the
remainder
of dividing the sum of the first two
numbers by the third number all right so
we're gonna add the first divide the
third
beautiful
i gotta turn my code code wars brain on
i feel disrespected here me too
all right uh
let's create a function
sum and
divide
cool we're gonna take in three numbers
so i'm gonna call n n1 and 2 and 3
and
we're going to return
the remainder so we're going to need
whenever we see return the remainder
what are we going to need
return the remainder what are we going
to need
modulus exactly so let's go to return
uh n1 plus
n2
modulus and three
yep so we're going to add the first two
and return the remainder of dividing the
third
one do it on one line it's going to do
um
const
sum and divide
equals
we're going to do
a b c
i'm just going to do
a
plus b
modulus b
because we have
why why don't i need why don't i need
the return keyword here
why don't i need the return keyword
yeah implicit return exactly when you
use an error function there's an
implicit return
meaning that anything that's on the
right-hand side of this this arrow uh
gets returned implicitly meaning you
don't need to put the return on there
cool
nice
all right let's get to the the hard one
shall we
we do the hard one let's see
create a function that takes in four
numbers
multiply the first two numbers
if the product is greater than 100
add the sum of the last two numbers and
console log the value
if the product is less than 100 subtract
the difference of the last two numbers
and console log the value if the product
is a hundred multiply the first three
numbers together and alert the remainder
of dividing the fourth number all right
let's try this
function around
and
math out
cool all right here we go so we have our
function
and we're going to take in four numbers
so it's going to take in our four
numbers and one and two and three and
four
cool
and we are going to
multiply the first two numbers so let
prod short for product equal
um n1 times n2
if the product is great let's just let's
i don't i don't three i don't think cool
here
talk about product uh if product is
greater than 100 so if
product
is greater than 100
sum the last two numbers and console log
the val
add the sum of the last two numbers and
console log the values so we'll go ahead
and do a console log where we'll do
product
plus
n3
n4
yes we'll take whatever the product was
sum the last two numbers we can just add
both the numbers and that'd be the same
thing as sum and console log the value
if the product is less than 100 so we'll
do an else if
product
is less than 100
we will
subtract the difference of the last two
numbers and console log the value let's
go and do console
log
product
minus n3 minus n4
yeah subtract the difference of the last
two numbers and cons log the value
and if it's not greater than 100 or less
than 100 the only thing it can be is a
hundred but the product is a hundred
multiply the first three numbers
together and alert the remainder of
dividing the fourth number
so alert
and then inside this alert
um
we're gonna do n one times
n 2 times n3
and then we're going to get the
remainder by doing modulus n4
that's all inside the alert
cool
next best it's all fun and games until
you accidentally let your meme code push
to production let me tell you
so it's funny like i i i um
like these are just examples so i'll
like curse and stuff but when you're on
the job please don't ever please don't
ever like put stupid stuff in your code
because you're going to forget about it
you're going to accidentally push it and
whoever's doing like your code review if
you have code review is going to see all
your silly stuff
i want i want
i once rejected a pr
because this was in this was this was
this was in the bottom
it was just a comment that said
this is at the bottom of their code
i don't know why this may be so funny
it's like this is like
this is like their struggle through it
like i don't i don't get it i don't get
it i think i got it ah nevermind
[Laughter]
oh
oh this is the best i i literally was
crying as i read this
yeah
all right i think this is close enough i
think this is good like i think this
follows everything uh let's try it out
um so we can do one that we know be less
than a hundred
um
so this this case should be
uh two times three is six
uh and so since it's less than 100 we
should do six
i mean we should do it the other way
let's do it this way
let's do
five four three two
cool so five times four should be 20
since 20 is less than 100 we'd expect it
to subtract 3 which would be 17 minus 2
which would give us 15. so we expect 15
uh to be
to be
console log let's save this so let's go
around boom we got 15. nice that looks
good our test case passed
let's do another one
let's go ahead and do
so we should be 100 times 4 should be
400 plus 3 plus 2 should be
405.
oh
yep 405 that works and then
exactly 100 let's do 101
and then and this should be
zero right because
one times a hundred
would be one hundred times three would
be 300
and then modulus 2 2 will go into 150
times with 0 left over so we should see
an alert of 0.
go ahead refresh
first try let's go
i'm a problem
alrighty folks so we got through the
easy
uh the medium and the hard
uh next up we are going to dive into
talking about pseudo code and then we're
going to hit up our
loops but since we're at the top of the
hour we're going to take our break since
we're three hours we're gonna take a
slightly longer break this time so if
you're able get up move around walk
around hydrate uh also grab some food
we're gonna be in for a long haul folks
we're just getting to loops we still got
after loops we have to get through
um arrays objects apis
classes oop and all the hunt goodness so
uh we're just getting warmed up here
folks let's put 10 minutes on the clock
do what you got to do
walk the dogs
get some babies
and i'll see you in 10 minutes all right
let's take a look at this one together
so i wanted to write some pseudo code
first right
so i want to convert a value from
celsius to fahrenheit so i want to
convert a value from celsius to
fahrenheit what's the first thing i
actually need
what's something that like i actually
need
yeah i need that i need that value right
i need the value
let's go ahead and get the value first
so i i need to get like the value
need the value in celsius beautiful
once i have the value in celsius
then what do i need to do
thank you necco
yeah we need to convert it
convert
celsius to fahrenheit
and then
once we've converted it what's the last
thing we need to do
we got our initial celsius value convert
it to celsius to fahrenheit what's the
last thing i need to do
like show it right yeah like log it
return it show it cry
uh show the value i'm gonna say show the
value
cool those are kind of our three big
things we have to do
so we have like a set of instructions
what do we use to hold our sets of
instructions
like what how what what is the thing
we've learned about so far today yeah
functions
all right so we have a function
c
2 f
and i'm just going to keep my pseudo
code inside of here
and so the very first thing i need
is to get the value
so i'm going to kind of get the value
i'm going to call it like temp
when i set it equal to document.
[Music]
uh input
and we're gonna get the value out of it
we also know we want this to be a number
so
make sure that we're always dealing with
a number and notice the pattern we've
seen this two or three times already
tonight and so if you didn't know how to
do it you could at least said all right
how do i get how do i get a value how do
i get a number and you can look at your
past examples like oh that's how i can
get it so you write the pseudo code so
you can go back and look through your
other examples you can look through
stack over things like that to find how
you're going to do it
all right so now we got the value in
celsius how do we convert our
temperature from celsius to fahrenheit
what did you all find to convert the
temperature
temp equals what
temp times 1.8
plus 32. cool i'm gonna trust you on
that one
all right so now we've converted it and
the last thing we want to do is show the
value
um
so
we have a place where we want to show it
do we do we have like anything set up
here in our html let's see
i don't have anything in my html let's
go ahead and set up some stuff in our
html i want like a place to
first we need the input right we need
the input and then we need a place to
like actually put the
value
so i'm going to go ahead and put an
input in here
and i'm going to put like
uh an h2
that's where we're going to put the
value
and we're gonna have an h1
that says click me
cool
all right there we go i got our input
our click me and our h2
uh so i'm going to show the value so
let's just go ahead and grab the
document dot query selector
let's put the h2 there
and let's put inside of it
whatever temp is equal to at the moment
cool
so we're going to get the value out of
the input we're going to convert it and
we're going to put the value inside of
the h2 now
there's one problem with this
and that's that what's what's the
problem we've seen this problem before
let's a i appreciate that
it only runs once yeah we haven't
haven't actually called it and uh this
is going to happen on page like it would
get this number on page if we were just
to call it it would run
we're not actually doing it in response
to anything so let's let's go ahead and
just make this like actually a click
event
make sure it's actually like a click
event so let's go ahead and do
um document dot query selector
let's target the h1 we're going to add
our event listener notice how we've seen
this earlier today look we're building
patterns folk look at us go c to f
awesome so now this will only run on
click
well it'll give us some time to grab the
value out of the input to convert it and
then put it into
uh the dom let's go ahead and save this
let's see if it runs
i'm going to open this in the browser
cool
a celsius value let's do a 100 that
would be
212 in fahrenheit
first try
you know it's tiny let's get bigger
all right so we got a hundred
and then let's go ahead and try um
zero should be 32.
let's go
cool all right so in our html we added
the input the h1 the h2
our main.js we have it set up so that we
have our event listener we have our
function where we got the value we
converted it and we showed the value
we wrote decent pseudo code so even if
you forgot how to get a value out
how to get a value you could have maybe
gone back to our previous code or stack
overflow or discord always go to discord
probably first
convert c to f right we're going to
convert the value we had to google that
and then we figured out how to show the
value if we forgot how to put something
into the dom we could have went to
discard google things like that
cool
welcome micro glad you got us live
alrighty
cool so we got through our pseudocode we
got through our temperature converter
let's keep the trainer rolling folks all
right now most important question of the
day uh what is the best tv show of all
time
all right mods
i need you to start timing people out
here i'm seeing some some wild
suggestions here
uh we know the answer there's only one
good answer here everyone else going to
get timed out it's going to give me a
minute here i'm going to start timing
these people out one second here we go
there we go
all right the answer obviously
a bachelor cool
since we all agree let's go ahead and
take a look at some bachelor
themed coding challenges
all right let's take a look
let's close these two solutions if
you're just joining us if you want the
materials you can join our discord
exclamation point discord agree to the
rules you'll see a follow-up material
channel we're going to get all these
materials that we're working through
today look at all this gold right here
folks go ahead and get those materials
and so let's go ahead and take a look at
bachelor code you see that there are
three separate assignments in here we're
going to start with the first one
together
i'm gonna open up that js file i'm gonna
open up that index.html file i'm going
to open this index.html file in the
browser
and here we go
and here i'm just thinking everyone
really loves the bachelor here that's
funny
all right so here we go we have we have
three
uh contestants on juan pablo season of
the bachelor we all know that juan pablo
season of the bachelor
was obviously one of the most
controversial seasons of the bachelor
mainly because juan pablo at the end did
not propose to nikki but instead decided
to give her the final rose and say hey
we can kind of keep this thing going but
i ain't proposing
shook the whole bachelor nation uh it
was definitely up there on best seasons
of the bachelor
and so what we want to do
is when you click on
final rows
i want claire and unfortunately the
second level of my life charlene to go
away
right and so we have
click on final rows claire goes away
unfortunately charlene goes away and
we're going to be left with just nikki
who is the one that that that received
the final rose
okay
cool
so click on final rows
claire disappears unfortunately charlene
disappears and um
and uh
just leave nikki let's take a look
at this code
if you look we have some
some code that's already here
all you have to do is kind of fill in
the blanks here to make it work
all right let's go ahead and put just
like a quick quick quick two minutes for
this one two minutes on the clock open
up the code give it the old 100 devs try
and after two minutes we're gonna go
over it together
uh nikki is in uh the middle
the pediatric nurse yes
nick he's a pediatric nurse has the blue
top click final rows only nikki's left
all right go ahead two minutes on the
clock you got this dig deep we're gonna
go over it together
about how far we felt
how
about how far we came felt like we
learned this ages ago hey turn up
this is the one where like the dunzo can
probably happen quickly that's all right
first time i beat the clock hey get in
here
shout out to all the new folks that are
joining us today
deal see i i love when i could see the
first time chatting that's pretty cool i
wish there was like a way to have it for
like the entire first stream like i hope
like just for like the first stream you
get like a special box the whole time
that'd be cool
[Music]
nikki was supposed to remain dev d nikki
so not clear charlie nicki remains
verodin a welcome
jumping in mid cohort's totally fine so
we got the ketchup crew frida to join
when you agree to the rules and click
the emojis on discord you'll find the
new catch-up crew join that get some
help as you start through good day to
join us i'll review
glad you're here
hey sorry to hear that jasmine
onto better ones
all right folks come on through come on
through
go over this together
all right
so
we want when we click on final rows
for this function to run so we're gonna
get rid of this insert code here and we
know with our event listener that this
should be called hide so when we click
on final rows we should call the
function hide and what we want to do is
we want to be able to hide both claire
and charlene's photo so if we look at
clare and charlene's photo
we can see that claire had the idea of
claire
and charlene had the idea of charlene so
we can remove claire we can remove
charlene
by hiding those two ids
yeah cool
let's go ahead we can target claire
using octothorpe claire that'll target
the id of claire that image and we can
do the same thing for charlene
octothorpe
charlene right
and there we go if we were to click on
hide
it would hide both of them
i can't bear myself to do that so we're
going to just comment out this line here
let's go ahead and see if this works
all right let's refresh
and we click on finalrows three two one
boom claire disappeared uh because we
remove we did the if we go back to look
at the code we did the display none
on clear so we actually changed the css
that's being bound to the rendering of
claire's photo to none we're going to
take a look at it
we're going to take a look at it we
refresh
let's open up the inspector
and if we look at claire
so keep your eye on claire here that's
highlighted and let's click the final
rows
and we'll notice that clear now has like
this inline style
has this inline style that's display
none that's why claire is not there
javascript has manipulated the dom
it's literally gone into this rendering
and put the display none so that
claire's photo does not show up
right
cool
can we use get element by d you can
i'm using query selector just because i
can use it everywhere and we're
eventually going to use query selector
query selector all um there are things
like speed considerations that can come
into play but for now we're just using
the thing that's the most flexible
it's awesome here mo glad you're with us
today
cool yeah so we're able to manipulate
the dom directly with javascript we went
ahead and put style display goes none
and this also kind of shows us um why we
don't ever do what this is a really
strong uh a strong example of why we
never do one thing in particular there's
one thing that we talked about way at
the beginning
um
right you talked away at the beginning
um about never doing
yeah exactly we would never want to do
inline styles right inline styles right
everyone do inline styles and we're
seeing right now if we have inline
styles it can kind of override
everything and the only way we could
override this would be to have
over a thousand points of specificity in
our css which no normal kind of
developer would do so yeah we're missing
we're messing with the dom directly
we're putting in-line styles and that's
how these things are taking effect
beautiful
all right let's go and take a look at
the number two
and close this gonna close this
now let's go ahead and take a look at
this javascript and this html file
if we look there's a lot to be filled in
on this javascript file and if we open
the html file here
we want you to be able to choose who the
next bachelorette should have been
clearly the next batch of that should
have been charlene
unfortunately they brought andy to be
the next bachelorette it was a hot mess
of a season but it did lead to next
season which was probably one of the
best bachelor seasons
in my opinion
it was pretty good i was saying the best
it was definitely pretty good so if we
had to have andy as a bachelorette to
get nick as a bachelor down the line i'm
okay with that
cool so uh here i want you to be able to
pick who you thought the next
bachelorette should have been so if you
wanted andy when you click on andy it's
just show their photo when you click
again it should disappear you want it
clear when you click on clarity show
claire's photo when you click again it
should disappear and you click on
charlene it should show their photo if
you click it again it should disappear
you get to choose who the next batch
that should have been so make these
click events work make sure it's hiding
and showing their image and you're going
to have let's see how many minutes
should we have for this one
let's go ahead and do three minutes on
this one
three minutes on this one and then we're
going to go over it together
all right you got this dig in good 100
try get as far as you can it will go
over it soon
my favorite joke from the first cohort
was we manipulate the dom like juan
pablo manipulates hearts
that's so good that's so good
everyone says that about nick i have to
watch that season yeah it was a it was
pretty decent season
it works for andy but not the other two
make sure you didn't reuse andy
throughout all of the functions
couldn't you add the ids in the html
file i mean this is practice right this
is for us to get and practice and to do
different things as examples none of
this is production level code this is
all examples so you can see how
different things work in javascript
hey it's awesome talon congrats
everything is production level code if
you have no code review
isn't that the truth
honestly lost here well hey this is this
is meant to be a review remember we have
full three hour long classes on each of
these topics we're condensing what was
i don't know
10 12 classes into one sunday
you definitely go back join the ketchup
crew
walk through each of these classes at a
much slower clip
t3k no no no plans yet for another
cohort you can always join our catch-up
crew though exclamation point 100 dabs
will give you everything you need to
know about the boot camp and how to
catch up
david yes i would recommend going back
to each class and joining the ketchup
crew on discord
yep panzer said i would recommend
starting at the beginning
and now joining the ketchup crew
all right folks come on back let's take
a look at this together
sometimes just a bop
[Music]
all right i gotta stop myself
like a little little chair dance to keep
it going
how many channel points for a pop lock
session y'all ain't ready for that the
internet would explode
all right let's take a look at this uh
we have something that we we actually
saw a little bit earlier today
which is where we put our
our dom elements
into
variables so here you can see i have the
document.query selector andy and i
stored that in the
in the variable andy and so now whenever
i want to reuse this
document.queryselector
i don't have to type it over and over
and over again right just going to save
me some time all right
here we have the event listener for when
we click on andy next if we look
uh there's three pieces of text andy
next clarinet charlene next
and there's three images and so
we want our click events to be tied to
these bits of text so andy next clear
next charlene next so let's
fill that in
um so when they click on andy next it
should fire
the function called andy next like we
want this function down here to fire
when they click on clear next i want the
function called clear next to fire
cool
and when they click on charlene next i
want this function charlene next to
the fire
all right so let's go ahead and pop that
in shar clean
next
andy next clarinet charlene x looking
good
all of our functions would now fire and
so let's look at this first function
here for andy next so
i clicked on the bit of text for andy
and what i want to do
is i want to add a certain class to
clare
add a certain class to charlene and
toggle a certain class on andy
let's take a look at the html real quick
why are none of the images showing up by
default and the other examples they were
there right the other examples they were
there but why why are the images not
showing up right now
yeah if we look
they all have this class of hidden
so let's go and take a look at our css
and see if that class does anything
aha
all right so there's this class of
hidden in our css which is doing the
display none so if i want these images
to show
i have to remove this class and if i
want to hide them i have to add this
class and that's exactly what we're
doing in our javascript here we're
saying hey
when i click on andy the only image that
should be shown is andy so hide claire
hide charlene and make andy visible so
i'm gonna add
the hidden class
to claire
i'm gonna add the hidden class
to charlene
and i'm going to add the hidden class
or i'm going to toggle the hidden class
on andy
so we're just kind of using the same
classes so classless ad literally adds a
class
and toggles the same thing as a light
switch if the lights are on and you hit
the button
lights go off
if the lights are off and you hit the
button
lights come on right so you're toggling
it on and off
cool
now you're saying isn't added by default
well remember we don't know if we're
switching from claire to andy or from
andy declare or anything like that so
what we want to do is it doesn't matter
where we're coming from we're just going
to hide claire and charlene no matter
what it doesn't i don't care if claire
was clicked before i don't care if
charlene was clicked before as long as i
don't click on andy i'm going to hide
everything and then just show or toggle
andy and the reason why we do this is
because a computer will do what we tell
it to do the computer doesn't know that
we were just showing claire or that we
were just showing charlene it only knows
what we tell it to do and so i'm going
to tell it to do the same thing every
time which is if i'm clicking on andy
hides claire hi sterling i don't care if
they're visible or not just hide them
anyway and then toggle andy
yeah
cool so let's go ahead and save this and
we should have andy working we have to
comment this out because it might not
like these like brook ones
let's go ahead and save this
refresh
all right there we go we got andy
toggling andy
andy
andy i saw some folks saying is anyone
from atlanta today uh andy was a uh
associate district attorney for atlanta
so this was your associate district
attorney for a while all right here we
go so we got andy showing uh claire and
charlene are not working yet
right claire and charlene are not
working yet
so let's go ahead and fill in the rest
here
we know the trick now that all of these
are going to need the hidden class so
i'm just going to go ahead and put
hidden on all of these at one time just
using that command we talked about
earlier with the hidden
um boom
there we go now they all have hidden and
now i have to go ahead and um add
hidden to andy
and charlene since i'm in claire
right and then i can toggle hidden
on claire
same thing down here i'm going to add
hidden to andy
and i'm going to add hidden to claire
and i'm just going to toggle hidden on
charlene
well now it should work for all of them
so andy hide and show claire hide and
show darlene hide and show
if we click on andy but then we go to
charlene
what do we expect if andy's up and i
click on charlie what do i expect to
have happen andy's up i'm going to click
on charlene what do we expect to have
happen
yeah we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna
tell andy to hide and then toggle
charlene
that's how we get charlene now
did my program
like did my computer know
that andy was visible
like when i when i clicked when i went
from andy to charlene did my program
know that andy was visible
no
it didn't no remember computer only do
what you tell it to do it had no idea
that andy was visible it just knows that
when i click charlene
i hide andy every time i hear i hide
clear every time
did i have to hide claire when i click
on charlene
did i have to hide claire when i clicked
no i mean i did it i didn't have to
and so that that's the whole point here
the whole point here is that we are
going through
and we are we we're not doing
conditional logic we could do
conditional logic we could say like if
claire is visible then hide clear or we
could just always hide claire always
hide andy whenever we're clicking on
charlene so there's ways we could have
done it conditionally and there could be
this way we're like oh we're just going
to take advantage of the fact that i
don't care it's going to hide them all
regardless of the state and uh then show
charlene
cool
all right let's do this last one
together
so on this last one number three let's
go ahead and open up the index.html
and the javascript file
go ahead and open this in the browser
and uh what i want to have happen here
is we know that
who got the final rose
uh this is a very important question who
got the final rose in juan pablo season
of the bachelor
nicki exactly nikki got the rose and
juan pablo season of the bachelor so
when i click on claire i want it to
alert wrong
and when i click on nikki
i want it to show their their photo
okay so
if we look we can see that we have two
things that we can click on
claire
and nikki
we can see that both claire
and nikki have the class of contestant
but only have
uh i'll only have one that has rose
right so claire has the class of
contestant
nicki has the class of contestant but
only one has the class rose and that's
what we're going to look for if they
have the class of rows we know they got
the final rows and we can show their
photo otherwise we should alert wrong
if we look at our javascripts here we're
going to go ahead and set up an event
listener for every single
event listener from every single uh
click clickable thing we're gonna put an
event listener on everything that's
clickable aka the claire and nikki then
we're gonna check to see if it has that
certain class all right let's put
another three minutes on the clock for
this one go at it we'll go over it
together we'll explain everything and
then we're gonna move on folks we got
some other wonderful things to get to
all right three minutes on the clock you
got this dig in
fls we'll get to that when we go over it
together
uh class is a dot
kangaroo
[Music]
so
oh sweet googly mooglies i got it done
yeah i love it
done so glad we showed up for this
review hey i'm glad you showed up for
the review too
hey turd glad you found us too
we got some dunzo's coming in quick
we'll go over this one we'll take our
break and then we're moving into a raise
folks moving into a raise
uh insert code is where you're supposed
to insert code
it's just my way of saying like hey put
your code here
yes exactly pumpkin i mean toasters
i need a good tea to drink while coding
any suggestions
um i'm a big fan of tazos right now
pretty much all their tea lines are
pretty good for me i like something with
a little bit of caffeine good taste i
like the
the um vanilla chai it's kind of my
go-to we're drinking a little bit of
coffee today though
all right folks come on back come on
back
[Music]
rubio supposed to be like the best tea
for like uh
like health-wise yeah
all right let's come on back
all right take a look at this last one
we're going to take our break and then
move on into our next wonderful topic
today
all right
so
we want to be able to grab all the
contestants and so so far we've seen
query selector but query selector only
grabs
the first one
right
right only grabs the first one
query selector all
enables us to look at everything that
has a specific value so let's go ahead
and grab all of them that have
uh the class of contestant
right contestant right so if we look at
contestant
we can see that there are two things
that have the class of contestant
and so
query selector all is going to return
something kind of unique anybody know
what query selector all returns
would query selector all give us here
look at us go
yeah
it returns a node list
which is kind of like an array but not
really it doesn't have all the stuff
that arrays have
and so that's what we're going to do
here we're going to get the query
selector all which is going to give us a
list of every single thing that has that
class
but if we want to be able to do like
array type stuff on it we can use this
array from and what this is going to do
is it's going to give us an array from
this uh lovely node list that we have
here
right so we're going to take this node
list and kind of get all get an array
from it
and now that we have an array from it we
can use array stuff like for each
right
all right like for each and so what
we're going to do now is what for each
is we're going to loop through each
element that we have and we're going to
go ahead and set up an event listener on
each of those elements so we're going to
call check for rows let's put in here
check for rows
and so all this is
is a fancy way
of grabbing everything that had the
class of contestant
and giving them all
the same event listener we went through
and put a smurf on each one of those
contestants that was listening for the
click and now no matter if we click
nikki or if we click claire there is now
the same event listener on each of them
all right now
now we have our event listener working
right now we have our event listener
working
we can go ahead and click on either of
the contestants
and so whatever we click on
is going to become the click target
right whatever we click on is gonna
become
the click target so if i clicked on
the first contestant that would be this
clear
or if i clicked on the second one it
would be this nikki
and so when i click on it i want to see
if it contains the class of what
i want to see if we could
right
i want to see if it contains the what
yeah let's see if it has the class of
rose
why don't i need a dot here
but i needed a dot here
like here i needed a dot but here i
don't
what's the difference
yeah we've already said class lists so
we already know that we're looking for a
class so we don't need to put a dot here
because we're already expecting a class
up here query selector all can look for
anything
and so we need to tell that we're
looking for the class of contestant up
here great
now we're looking to see hey the thing
we just clicked on does it have the
class of rows
because if it does then we know that
we've clicked on nikki let's go ahead
and toggle
hidden right nikki still has the hidden
class
if we come down here and look nicki has
the hidden class and so we want to go
ahead and toggle the hidden class on
nikki
right and that'll make nikki show when
we click on their name because they have
the class of rows
and if we click on something that does
not have the class of rows aka if we
click on claire then we should see the
alert of
wrong because if we look
claire
does not have the class of rows so we
should get a wrong
do we have this open already let's go
ahead and refresh
claire
wrong
nikki their image first
cool
alrighty folks
looking good
remember i'll always share all the code
after class uh so after we're done today
you'll get all of the code that i'm
working through
all right
we take a break we're going to do loops
and then we're going to do a raise so
we're at the top of the hour so it's
going to take our five minute break loop
it real good exactly all right let's go
through let's go through loops
this is engagement exactly
you're all like engagement got him
uh so we're gonna talk about loops we're
gonna talk about loops we're gonna talk
about loops we're gonna talk about loops
we're gonna talk about loops we're gonna
talk about loops we're gonna talk about
loops we're gonna talk about loops we're
gonna talk about loops we're gonna talk
about loops we're gonna talk about loops
loops we're gonna talk about loops we're
gonna talk about loops and talk about
loop
hey does this work loops we're going to
talk about loops we're going to talk
about loops we're going to talk about
loop our else if our else if our else if
our l loops we're going to talk about
loops we're going to talk about loops
and talk about loop hey does this work
it was at this moment that he knew he
up
loops we're going to talk about loops
we're going to talk about loops and talk
about loop
hey does this work hey does this work
our else if our else if our elsif our l
loops we're going to talk about loops
we're going to talk about loops and talk
about loop loops we're going to talk
about loops we're going to talk about
loops we'll talk about loops we're going
to talk about loops we're going to talk
about loops and talk about loop loops
we're going to talk about loops we're
going to talk about loops and talk about
loop
it was at this moment that he knew he
up luke we're going to talk about
loops we're going to talk about loops
we're going to talk about loop
hey does this work
luke we're going to talk about loops
we're going to talk about loops and talk
about loop
uh come on hey we're four hours in i
could have a little fun
i could have i get to have a little fun
you gotta give me something
you gotta give me something here
10 hours later it's just loops on loops
on loose
all right let's get into it folks
loops are a way that we can repeat some
action
over and over again
there are three main kinds of loops that
we saw in javascript for while and do
while and each one kind of just
determines like how you start and stop
the loop um
there are also other loops we saw when
we got the things like arrays for each
which we just saw
map reduce all these things are also
loops as well so we'll cover loops and
we're going to see them again even when
we get to arrays
all right
so
the first loop we're going to look at is
the for loop and you always kind of see
this like pretty
overwhelming bit of information initial
expression condition expression
increment expression all that really
means is hey we're going to set up a
counter
we're going to say how long the loop's
going to run like when is it going to
stop and what happens to that counter
after each iteration of the loop
right
each iteration of the loop
and so
here we have this idea of console
logging i with each loop and if we were
to let this run the loop is starting off
at one so the very first thing we see
print it to the console would be one
then we're going to add
one to the i
and then we're going to check to see if
we're still good so one plus one b two
is two less than five since that is good
we go ahead and console log i again
which now it's at two
then we're going to add one to i which
means we're at three
is three less than five that is true
then we console log i again which is
three
then we add one to i which means we're
at four
is four less than five yes that is true
so we go ahead and console log i which
is four
and we add one to i
and there's five less than five
no that is not a true statement so we
stop and the only thing that would be
printed to the console was one two three
four
beautiful
all right let's take a look at the 21
savage loop you're going to put this for
loop in to practice freckled sides hey
coming through with the raid
hey i appreciate you bringing the crew
by hope you're doing well
ah
i think we've only done we've only been
able to make one raid happen to freckled
science uh but an amazing channel
amazing group of folks definitely want
to hang out uh over there uh
does a bunch of open science does a
bunch of butterfly collecting a lot of
really fun stuff a really cool stream to
catch and they stream typically later at
night and so typically right after our
stream is over
like a half an hour later they start
streaming and so if you're ever like you
know what i'm staying on twitch boom you
pop over to their channel you have a lot
of fun uh definitely
uh one of my favorite channels here on
twitch and they
we used to be in the same category but
now we stream in different categories so
we don't we don't we don't get to see
them as much but if you haven't
definitely give them a follow please
let me see i can spam it in chat here
all right i'm gonna grab it real quick
one second hold on
boom there we go i'm gonna throw it in
chat here
boom
boom boom if you haven't given them a
follow please please give them a follow
you're messing up if you don't give them
a follow
definitely one of my favorite channels
to hang out and definitely like after
stream i'm probably still on twitch
hanging out in their stream so
definitely give them a follow thank you
for bringing the raid over hope you've
been doing well i hope your stream went
well hope you all had some fun
the butterflies are real they are
they're beautiful too
wait we're not in science in tech
anymore we're not on science and tech
anymore i miss science and tech you know
the the so science in tech is where we
started out and now we are on software
and game development
and back in the day
we used to get clapped by the ducks and
so now i don't get to see the ducks
anymore and that that makes me upset but
there always used to be ducks that sat
at the at the top of our um
at the top of our uh
at the top of our channel and so we
don't see the ducks anymore but we got
our own like science we got our own
channel but i miss being with all the
other folks in uh science and uh
technology
so there's there's a relic of some of
the old guard of which freckled science
is one of them
yeah there's a stream of like these
ducks and they always used to like
they were just always live they would
always have like 400 500 people just
like watching ducks walk around
i don't know
different different strokes for
different folks i guess
all right let's let's look at this
alrighty folks let's get in here let's
take a look at this code for folks that
came up with the raid we're in the
middle of a full javascript review so we
run a free 30-week software engineering
bootcamp everything you need to go from
having never coded before to actually
getting employed as a software engineer
and so we are taking today to just
review everything javascript that we've
talked about so far we're four hours in
who knows how much longer we're going to
go we just talked about loops we got to
talk about arrays objects
object-oriented programming apis
and then how to interview so we got a
lot of stuff still left on the docket so
glad you're here with us all right
so let's go ahead and take a look at
this
savage loop
uh it's in the materials for today if
you wanted to follow along with the
materials they're honored discord
exclamation point discord agree to the
rules you'll see a follow-on materials
channel and you'll get all of this heat
right here that we're working through
today all right
let's look for our 20 sir savage the
21st
we have a javascript file and there's a
little prompt here
i want you to go ahead and create a
function
that has a loop that prints 21 21 times
to the console and then call that
function
uh bonus if you can make it print 21 21
times to the
dom
cool so let's go ahead and bring that up
here
and bring the timer up let's do uh
let's do four minutes on this one four
minutes on this timer
go ahead
use a for loop
if you can do the bonus do the bonus and
we're gonna go over it together you got
this give it the whole 100 try as far as
you can
can i print thailand of course
can't wait till that duck pokemon comes
out yeah
i don't know starters for
violet
don't look too impressive to me i i mean
they look cute but
are you kidding i love me the weed cat
i guess
i think the starters look okay
but
uh
they're not gonna give us the national
decks again
that's gonna be upsetting
i just don't believe in them anymore
we should have more info dropping soon
they always like they they used to
through out all the main series up until
sword and shield they always drop new
info like mid-may like like tomorrow
if they kept the old the old schedule
like tomorrow they'll drop more info
about um
the two new games violet and scarlet
um but with sword shield they waited
until june so i'm hoping they do in may
and maybe this week we'll get some good
info if not we'll have more in
in june
i just want them to get online right
they could just get online right i'd be
over the moon
give me like good online where i can
like actually battle folks add them to
my friends list
and
a national dex and like i'm good
sorry full decks
can't believe i'm actually done hey
congrats
minute 30 left to get in here
favorite vs code plugin i don't really
like i don't really use plugins
that's all my plugins
probably prettier
by about it
all natural
[Music]
a lot of dundas coming in
now pokemon x and y had the best online
you could literally just be playing and
you see all these people from like japan
and france playing if anybody looked
cool you like click on their avatar you
could ask to like trade with them you
could ask to battle with them and then
the cool thing is if you had like a
really good battle and like they did
something cool you could you could work
them all the way up to your friends list
and actually talk to them while you're
battling so i made friends from japan i
made friends from france like people all
over the world that i was like battling
and playing with it just turned what was
a normal single player experience into
what felt like a real like
world with like real people in it that
you could really battle and that like
just blew my mind and i've been chasing
that
ever since
and it's just gotten worse and worse
hey
really needed this review i know i had
no idea hey i'm glad it's working for
you
all right folks come on back come on
back
all right let's look at this together
show the music
all right
a function that has a loop that prints
21 21 times to the console and then call
that function
all right function
sir
savage the
21st
and
it's going to have a loop that prints 21
21 times to the console let's go and
create our for loop
let i equal
one while i is less than
uh or equal to 21
and we'll do i plus plus
and we're going to console.log
i oh sorry i'm going to console.log 21.
beautiful so we're going to console.log
it 21 times to the console let's go
ahead and call this
let's save it and let's make sure that
this actually works
open in the browser let's open up the
inspector
console boom we got 21 21 times to the
console 21 21 21
i thought you're gonna let copilot
generate it nah
all right cool we got 21 21 times to the
console but there was a bonus here bonus
if you can make a print 21 21 times to
the dom
to the dom all right so let's let's come
down our console log here
and we have anything in the dom where we
can put it
yeah we have this id savage says so
let's go ahead and target that
um document
dot query selector
and we'll go ahead and do the id of
savage
says
and we're gonna put inside of that
uh 21.
great
so now we should put 21
into the dom 21 times we're going to see
something that's going to happen here so
let's pay attention so we're going to
loop through
this should run 21 times we should put
21 into the down 21 times let's save
this let's go back let's refresh
all right so we did get 21
in the dom it does say 21 here
um but why doesn't it say 21 21 times
what happened
what's going on
yeah
for nook college robotics uh
just overrode it we just overwrote it 21
times right we just put it 21 times back
into the dom so it worked did it 21
times but it we didn't get to see it
what we want to do is we want to concat
need it right so let's go ahead
and do plus equals
21 and i'm gonna put a little space that
they're separated and now what's gonna
happen is each time this runs we're
going to add 21 to the dom so it's going
to keep concatenating in the dom and if
we refresh
boom there we go we got 21 21 times to
the dom
wrap it with the space in the front boom
there we go we got 21 21 times into the
dom we got some space between it
and looks like we're doing good control
all right take a look at the code real
quick
simple for loop we did the console way
first now we're concatenating in the dom
the second way
cool
all right let's keep moving folks
alrighty we also have a while loop
and so while loops are a little bit
different we do the
can we do our increment outside of the
loop so here we're setting up count as
our increment we have our end condition
as part of the loop and then we are
incrementing our count here uh each time
now
if i for for some reason forgot to
uh have my count go up by one
all right go up by one uh what might we
run into here with this project
what might we run into here yeah we
could run into an infinite loop meaning
that our loop would keep running
and uh until our browser ran out of
memory and our computer crashed chrome
kind of stops that from happening these
days but back in the day you could have
infinite loops that would literally
crash your browser and crash your
computer um and so yeah we gotta be
careful when we're doing especially
while loops that we make sure that our
end condition can actually be met right
and that we actually have an increment
that's happening so we don't run into an
infinite loop
i'll just finish a cpus project do you
only do js yes we are here to learn how
to get jobs and so the fastest way to a
job right now is full stack javascript
that's how we teach it
cool
all right
let's go ahead and take a look at
another loop the uh the oh sorry let's
let's take a look at some review here
and move into the bring it on so go to
bring it on code here
and close this sir savage 21st code and
we should have a bring it on
here we go bring it on is the name of
the folder we got index.html we got a
javascript file here and we got review
of all of the big four that we just
covered there's some variable review
there's some function review there's
some conditional review and there's some
loop review let's put eight minutes on
the clock
eight minutes on the clock give it the
old 100 devs try
try and get as far into this as you can
and we're gonna go over it all together
all right you ready
let's do this
got this this is the bring it on it's
review everything we did so far eight
minutes on the clock
daddy's home hey thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
this is the bring it on yeah
seven minutes to go folks you got this
how can we make our commented lines
wrapped the next night instead of the
whole comment online it's called word
wrap it is a setting in vs code word
wrap so if you open up your settings and
you look for word wrap you can turn it
on
or soft wrap
option z on mac alt z on windows there
you go
120 days of anki and code war streak
that's wild congratulations web dev
between word wrap and white space word
wrapping is like what you see here
where um like see how we get to the end
of the line
instead of me having to continue to
scroll to the right it wraps to the new
line that's word wrapping
white space is just what you see here
like literally the spacing
i don't know if you're memeing or not
chronic but uh we're not using any
frameworks right now
cover basics of javascript then we move
into the basics of node we use express
to build out our apis
and then uh yeah we build up full stack
web applications we got a little bit of
react on at the end
what do i mean by subtracts for numbers
yeah create a function that takes it for
numbers and subtracts them all from each
other and then alert the difference so
yeah subtract them from each other
anthony from kidder hey thank you for
the raid
hope you're doing well thanks for the
raid
what are you all up to
anthony from kidder
i don't think i've seen your stream
before what were you all working on or
doing or
having fun
we are right now doing a full javascript
review
uh so we run a free 30-week software
engineering bootcamp takes you
everywhere from having never touched
code before to everything you need to be
employed and uh we're getting ready to
move into back end so if we're moving to
back and we're doing a full javascript
review we're four and a half hours into
it we're still not even close to being
done and right now we're doing a review
because we just reviewed the big four we
did variables functions loops
conditionals that's what they're working
on right now so we got three minutes
left on the timer and then we're gonna
move on to array
doing a solid js and react comparison
it's been fun let's do
what did you uh what did you find
when you were working with solid.js in
react what was the what was the results
of the comparison
that's awesome and different i know that
that's cool yeah
two minutes left folks and we're going
to go over it together as far as you can
and then we're going to go over it
together
that's awesome hey thank you anthony i
appreciate that
about to set up a raid then we get folks
coming back your way if you're helping
out on discord we gotta get folks right
in your way that'd be dope
got some dunzo's coming in love to see
it love to see it
more performant dope that's awesome i
haven't touched it before i haven't
played with it
if we keep going with me another
extended break yeah we'll probably do
like
i do like another five and then a ten i
think we'll do five ten five ten five
ten for the rest of the night
can you make a guess of how much longer
we're going to go until i have no idea
it depends on how many questions you
have remember i also said like once we
get through
um this i want to take some time to
answer some of the
the
slido questions and then we're going to
move into erase objects oop
then prep and all the interview stuff so
yeah we still got some time ahead of us
last one went nine hours i don't think
we'll hit nine
maybe maybe like seven seven and a half
it's really hard to
to guess these ones it really does come
down how much questions you all are
asking
but kudos to you all for putting in five
hours on a sunday so far that's wild
go 305 hey thank you for the gift of
subs thank you for being here i
appreciate that thank you so much
seven and a half leon time is nine
i like that that's funny
all right let's go over this together
folks
over it together then we're gonna do
some slido questions and we're gonna
probably take a break and then move into
arrays
all right variables create a variable
and console log of the value cool all
right
let
uh
num equal
five
and let's go ahead and console.log
beautiful
create a variable add 10 to it and alert
the value all right let
other
num equal
add 10 to it so other
num
plus equals
and alert
other
num
beautiful
all right
i think that gets our variables we got a
console log happening we've got an alert
happening i'm just going to comment
these out so if we run our functions we
don't see this stuff but it looks good
to me
functions create a function that
subtracts four numbers and alerts the
difference let's create a function
sub four
and alert
cool
you know we're gonna have four numbers
when we do n one and two and three and
four and like we talked about earlier
nothing special about those parameter
names we could have called that robot
unicorn attack
zebra and it would have all been the
exact same thing um but we're gonna go
ahead and alert the difference so let's
just go ahead and pull our alerts
straight in here and do n1 minus n2
minus
n3 minus n4 beautiful so we would
subtract all the numbers that would give
us the difference and we're already in
our alert
cool i'm not going to bother calling
these ones because we might have already
did a lot of these similar ones today
create a function divides one number by
another and returns the remainder as
soon as you see returns the remainder
what are we looking for
returns the remainder what are we
looking for
modulus exactly so it's going to create
that function
return
remainder
and let's go ahead and
return
and we know we're going to take in two
numbers let's do robot
unicorn
and we can just return robot
modulus
unicorn
cool
we had a function divides one number by
the other returns the remainder we have
the modulus to give us that remainder
robot modulus unicorn would work here
all right look at these conditionals
create a function that adds two numbers
and the sum is greater than 50 alert
jumanji
all right function
uh add
to
and alert
cool
we're taking two numbers let's do num1
num2 or in this case
rhino
zebra
and then let's go ahead and create a sum
but sum equal
rhino plus
zebra
and if
let's say if some is greater than
we should alert
comanji
beautiful
all right alert two we took in rhino and
zebra we added rhinos everybody get the
sum if sum is greater than 50
alert jumanji that's what we did
let's go
all right
create a function that multiplies three
numbers and if the product is visible by
three
alert zebra create a function that
multiplies three numbers and if the
product is divisible by three
alert zebra all right
function
multi
three
and check
cool so we're gonna take in three
numbers and one and two and three
we're going to
[Music]
get a product so let
product equal and one times and two
times and three
and if that product is divisible by
three how can i check to see if the
product is divisible by three
yeah we can do that modulus right so if
we divide if we use the modulus divide a
number by three and we don't get a
remainder if we get if we get zero back
we know that that number is divisible by
three right so we can do product
mod three
and if that equals zero then we know
that whatever product was was indeed
divisible by three because if it wasn't
divisible by three we would have gotten
some other number besides zero like one
two doesn't matter
cool
all right so if there's no remainder oh
sorry there if the remainder is zero
then we know it was divisible by three
and so we can go ahead and alert
zebra
zerg
zergrush
zebra there we go all right alert zebra
beautiful
all right let's keep pushing here we got
one more here
loops dilute the loops
create a function that takes in a word
and a number
all right here fingers takes in a word
and a number console out the word x
times where x was the number passed in
all right let's create a function here
loop word
x
times
we're going to take in a word
and a number
and we're going to console.log the word
x times
where x was the number passed in let's
go and do four
let i equal one
while i is less than or equal to num
we're gonna go ahead and have i go up by
one each time
and then we are going to console.log
word
so if this works right we'll console.log
word once for each time
and so we'll start off at one we'll go
up until we hit the num that was passed
in and so if we passed in five we should
see that the word console log five
times
beautiful
all right
well done everybody well done
let's go ahead and um
why start at one instead of zero well
i'm not using eyes like an index or
anything like that and so
since i know i'm not using it as like an
index or anything
i can just start with one
instead of zero if i knew i was going to
be using this like with a raise and i
needed that i to be like an index value
since our indexes start at zero that
would start at zero we could do it if
you wanted to we could start off at zero
and just um
right while it's less than num and that
would be the same thing it'd work just
the same
cool
we ain't nowhere near done yet
we still got a lot of stuff to go
through all right let's save this one up
let's go ahead and get back to the
slides here
we're going to move into arrays before
we move through a raise i want to take
it some time to go through some slide up
questions here maybe like let's say like
five minutes or so no 10 minutes or so
slide out questions and then we're going
to take our break
because when we take a break we're going
to come back from arrays we'll do arrays
we'll do objects and then we'll do apis
and then we'll do
oop and then we will wrap up with like
how to do the hunt cool
uh first question should we remove our
current non-related dev job since covet
on our linkedin profile or replace it
with dev freelancing no you don't have
to do that as long as you have your
agency experience or your freelance
experience on your resume as well like
you want that on there
my link is private because my former
boss stalks people online and tries to
sabotage them should i risk it for the
biscuit and make it public anyway
never do anything that's going to bring
yourself harm or something that could
adversely affect your process remember
all the stuff i ask you to do is about
opening as many doors as possible not
everyone has the privilege of opening
certain doors and so if you if opening
one of those doors would put you in a
bad spot don't do it
what do you say to someone who has
fallen off the wagon and has fallen
behind difficult life stuff happened but
i know i'm not the only one so i feel
uh i feel guilty um there's there's no
such thing as falling off the wagon or
falling behind uh because we have the
ketchup crew you can definitely do this
whole program at your own pace we don't
all have the same privilege of time or
energy or
um
this might not be the right time for you
to go through program but the beautiful
thing is that we have so many other
folks that are in the exact same spot
that are going through the ketchup crew
at their own pace and so while there
definitely are always perks to being
live
you can get the bulk of the experience
by going through the ketchup crew with
yourself and so give yourself some time
give yourself a little bit of grace and
then get back to it right get back into
the ketchup crew
keep plugging away but yeah if you need
to take time you need to to recharge and
come back that's okay
that's the beauty of this being also a
free program right like
if you're doing a paid program you
either either do it or you don't and you
lose your money uh here since this is
completely free you can take you have
the luxury of some of that time if you
need to take it
but we're all in the same roller coaster
some of us are just a little bit further
back
that's all right
um something about a dev finder
i haven't used it i don't know what that
is
uh can our networking from now will be
based solely on our hit list uh we're
close to doing that
we're close to doing that
um
we are
almost at the point where we're ready to
like start the hunt seriously
um so you're you're you're i wouldn't
put the pressure on yourself to be doing
hit list networking yet uh just because
we're not there we haven't started to
back in yet you haven't started 100
hours project yet um so the the hit list
focused networking comes a little bit
further in the process when if you start
to convert these these folks into actual
leads like
folks actually giving you interviews
you're ready for those interviews we're
not 100 ready yet to start actually
interviewing so it would be a waste if
you networked your way into those roles
and they weren't ready to kind of go
with that process so we can't wait just
a little bit longer for hit list focused
networking
leon how do you make time to do 100 devs
work and live your life thank you for
what you do
uh i don't go into my days like an
accident
my entire week is scheduled my entire
month is scheduled if it's not on my
google calendar it does not happen
i also have a wonderful wife that is
also doing their phd and working
extremely hard and so um
it's really great when you have a
partner that's grinding as much as you
are and uh yeah so it works out well
but i always schedule time for personal
stuff
i make sure that i have a few a few
afternoons uh a week that are that are
fun time
date night with with the wife like oh
like you you got to schedule
rest and relaxation just as much as you
schedule your your working hours
and then i really do work a lot so but i
also
one of the weird people that like to
work um
yeah like a good saturday is like
relaxing and then at night like getting
some work done i don't know i'm weird
uh mongodb versus sql sec sql being
highly regarded by other developers you
ever elaborate on the use of these and
why we might need one versus the other
uh we're not there yet we're going to
learn mongodb first and then we're going
to learn a little bit of postgres as
well so we'll learn both
and the reason why i like mongodb is
because if you know objects you know how
to use mongodb that's it that's why i
teach it it's just super easy to go from
having understood objects in the
javascript and like basic apis to using
a database now there are certain
scenarios where mongodb is better than
sql and some scenarios where sql is
better than mongodb when we get to that
in class we'll have actually a whole
video that breaks down um the
differences what's better for what but
there are scenarios where mongodb could
be better there's definitely a lot more
scenarios where sql can be better but
we're going to learn a little bit of
both
so that whenever you join the job
whatever they're using you can pick up
pretty quickly
i've
had bad i have bad social skills and
struggle networking into a job you have
any tips for good conversation and being
likable beyond the class book uh it's
how to win friends and influence people
if you've not read that book you must
read it you must put it into practice
and the other thing is that social
skills are a skill that you can practice
so when we do our networking nights you
have to show up you have to jump around
from table to table and just be up front
hey i really need to work on this stuff
will somebody work on it with me post on
discord that you want to practice this
stuff and people will join you as well
we literally have people that practice
networking and practice like the like
the behavioral interviews
every single day on discord last cohort
there are a group of people that did
like cold wars every day and coding
challenges every day there's also a
group that like practice social skills
and interviewing skills every day
you have to read how to win friends and
influence people you have to have the
questions and the answers memorized on
the bank like that that's your baseline
and then everything else is practiced
from there on
can we please see real life examples of
when to use which loop syntax
um no i mean they're just different
tools you use them when you need them
if you if you you will find yourself in
a situation where you need one versus
the other
you'll probably use for loops most of
the time and that's okay there's every
scenario where that's not working you're
not doing what you need then you'll use
something else but they're just tools on
your tool belt you don't need to you
don't like you'll know when to use it
because one won't be able to do what you
needed to do so yeah don't don't don't
stress about like knowing when to use
them in the right scenario
these are all different tools on your
tool belt and sometimes you're gonna see
a nail be like oh i need to use a hammer
and sometimes you're gonna see a screw
and know you're going to need a
screwdriver right and so it's about
finding scenarios where you need them
don't stress out about having to know
all the different possibilities just
know that they exist and if you need
them use them
all right let's see here
thanks drawer
uh can we please go over how to set up
local storage i think once we get
through apis we can look at it um but
it's really just the three commands that
we did in the slides there's really
nothing else to it so if you watch the
local storage class just review those
slides and that that that class it's
really just the fork like the four
commands like
add it remove it
set like that's it
there's nothing more to local storage
than that
um
yeah
100 devs minecraft server we used to
have a minecraft server uh we ran it for
a while um the problem was that like
minecraft is not free
and so i don't like having like
things that are not free
and so i sunset at the minecraft server
because there was no free version of
minecraft that's why we've been working
on the cs go server because uh no matter
who you are like no matter like if you
have like a toaster for a computer um
it'll work
and it's free so yeah we have the cs go
server coming
let's do a few more of these uh these
fido questions then we'll take our break
and we come back we're moving into a
raise folks
uh the engineers in my area mostly don't
have twitter but i found a lot on
linkedin would be a bad idea to connect
with them there instead um you can reach
out to them on linkedin you'd have to
send like a really nice message
explaining why you're reaching out to
them it's definitely a lot easier and a
little bit more organic to reach out
with them on twitter so i would keep
trying for folks local to your twitter
or local to the biggest city near your
locality and if there's nobody like if
you live in a really small town that's
really far away from the big city you
should probably be looking for remote
positions anyway and so you should go
the remote route instead of the local
route
uh are there any live networking and
live team project nights for the ketchup
crew uh yeah i mean so even if you're
part of the ketchup crew you're still
welcome to join our project nights uh we
have them mostly during class time
because that's when the bulk of people
are available but we'll do some over the
weekend and stuff like that but you can
always create a thread in the ketchup
crew and ask if people are where you're
at and if they want to work on those
projects together so we'll have some off
hours project nights that other folks
can can join
but also don't be afraid to kind of just
put out into the ketchup crew channel
that you want to do that stuff together
factor hey thank you for the gift of
subs thank you for being here
all right let's see
uh
i'm i'm in the ketchup crew starting to
work on my portfolio what do you
recommend to put in there if my html css
were created as baddies um you need to
clean it up
like it's okay to be like a baddie on
the weekends you know but sometimes
we gotta not be so sloppy and clean
things up and so
uh i would say you wanna definitely take
the
the salon website
and what was the other big one that we
did
salon and the restaurant website clean
those up and those should be the first
two things on your portfolio until we
get to the more meteor
projects specifically on the back end
uh are we targeting mid-level roles
instead of entry i thought i remember at
the beginning of the cohort that
mid-level has less applicants um i think
anything below senior is fair game
but we did even have folks last year
that were brand new to coding they got
senior roles
it's all a game to be played if you play
it well you're gonna realize you have
more opportunity than folks to have no
idea how to play this game at all so
um i i don't think limiting yourself is
a good place to start we're gonna we're
gonna we're gonna be serious about the
rules we think we can apply to anything
below senior i think is fair game and
remember we're networking our way in so
a lot of times even if the position is
not a right fit if you network your way
in then they might have other roles that
are better fits for you the whole point
is we're talking to real living
breathing human beings that actually
like us because we did the process right
so they're gonna be more accommodating
than just clicking apply
uh once we get a job as a master's in cs
worth it if your company's paying for
education sure
if the company ever says we'll pay for
your bachelor's will pay for your
master's hell yeah take it who cares
it's free right
but if if they're if they're not paying
for it then then probably not
there are some like pretty cool things
that are happening now in that space
though like georgia tech has the fully
online masters which is pretty
affordable you build decent projects um
and it's the same degree as they're like
on campus and i believe that's a top
five cs school so there are some like
alternatives that are cropping up but my
advice in education is always if
somebody's paying for it hell yeah
otherwise the debt is probably not worth
it
um
how can i craft my story if my story is
legitimately all over the place i
haven't lived a very linear life
just pick the threads that you care to
hold on to so if you haven't had a very
linear life that's okay you can omit
things you don't have to you don't have
to say everything that happened in your
story you can jump you can have gaps as
long as the transition from one to the
other sounds natural nobody's really
going to ever dig to figure out like why
and so a lot of people stress about
having gaps but my students that craft
their story right don't have to worry
about that and so it's okay to omit
things and just have a naturally flowing
story with the things that you want to
share that's okay you can make that work
too
regarding resumes we have a degree in a
related field okay data science do we
have it on the side or actually have a
section discussing it in detail uh i
think education like if you're following
the um the template where we have
education is a good place to keep it on
the template
yeah matter what you have it should just
go there
this next question is definitely
trolling instead of using anki i've been
writing old-fashioned note cards does
this still count as us doing anki hell
no
it was at this moment that he knew he
up old note cards or taking notes
in general is the biggest waste of time
you could ever ever ever do
the reason why anki works is because
there's an algorithm behind it that
shows you the cards when you need to see
them if you're just taking if you're
just writing flash cards you're not
actually
using spaced repetition it's just really
hard to as a human know when you need to
see certain stuff
and uh taking notes just doesn't work
either uh it's it's something that we
use that feels like we're learning it
feels good we feel like we're being
active we feel like we're being
participatory but it's actually really
low cognitive effort and we're not
actually contributing to our learning
cool
can you speak about what we say to 100
devs and interviews 100 devs is an
agency that has a training program
that's it you can say when you're
talking in interviews you don't really
bring up 100 devs you say it my last
opportunity and my last experience if
they dig then you say oh 100 devs is an
agency that has a training program if
they dig you say oh yeah i went through
the training program and they say oh
what did you do there well he's i worked
with a lot of clients and they say oh
what kind of clients when you talk about
the client that you worked with so you
remember everyone here has to get a paid
client or a
volunteer client or contribute to free
software and so if they dig dig dig dig
you say oh well this is the client i
worked with it's the project i built or
this is the person i volunteered with
here's what i built or here's the free
software project you can see here in my
commits here's what i built that's it
but a lot of folks won't bring it up
they'll just say my last opportunity my
last experience and most recruiters
don't care they're just trying to check
some boxes and get you to the nerds
but we'll practice that a lot as we kind
of continue
all right
i think we got through a big chunk of
this slido so pretty good the ones we
went through let's go ahead and take our
five minute break and when we're done
our five-minute break we'll come back
we're gonna move into arrays and objects
and then apis we've got a lot of fun
stuff left folks so
let's go ahead and put five minutes on
the clock here all right let's talk
about arrays folks let's talk about
raise
all right what are arrays chat what are
arrays
toasters
exactly
they are toasters magical bill gates
toasters and so i like to think about
toasters when i think of a raise like
i thought i was doing good in life until
i found out about bill gates toaster
right so my toaster is pretty pretty
cool it's a it's a four slot toaster
right
upgraded recently four slot toaster you
can do bagels you can do bread that
turns it into toast uh all the bells and
whistles normal toaster so one element
that holds four things so one thing that
holds four different things i can really
put whatever the heck i want inside of
that toaster however one day i was
hanging out at bill gates house and i
decided to like you know i was in their
kitchen and i was like what do they have
in the freezer they had like the fancy
toaster shooters not like the toaster
strudels that norm like normal folks can
buy like the toaster strudels that like
get flown in from like the netherlands
and like are like really fancy and so i
was like i gotta have myself some of
these fancy toaster strudel i wasn't
gonna do one or two i was like i'm gonna
fill up all four of the slots
and so
i put the four toaster strudels in and
then i
like right in front of my eyes boop like
a new slot opened up so i was like wait
a minute there's four slots with the
four fancy toaster strudels and as i
filled it up the fifth slot magically
appeared i'm like wait a minute i went
back to the freezer
i got another toaster strudel i put it
in the slot and then boop another slot
appeared
and then i realized that bill gates
toaster
magically creates a new slot
every single time we fill it up and so
it's still one toaster
but it's holding all these different
elements and the cool thing is it could
be not just toaster strudels but bagels
and toast and pizza rolls and hot
pockets like they'll get social took
everything so
one element that held a bunch of other
things but still one entity and so
that's what i think about when i think
about a raise not my
normal toaster but bill gates toaster
melody dev hey thank you for the five to
get this subs hope you're doing well
thank you for being here
so how many toaster strudels did you end
up with i got to around eight or nine
and then they didn't have any more in
their freezer and uh i was thoroughly
convinced in magic at that point forward
so yeah i stopped around nine all right
so arrays are really a data structure
used to hold other things
and those other things that we're
holding are in an ordered collection
now something really interesting about
an array is that that ordered collection
we start counting at zero we call that
zero indexing meaning that
the first slot in the toaster is not
number one it is the zeroth slot on that
toaster we do zero one two three and so
on
now the cool thing is once you get a
raise you also get all these other
methods that work with the arrays for
each map reduce all these wonderful
things that you're putting into practice
as you're doing your code wars every day
and there are multiple ways to create
arrays we can use both constructors
literal notation and we'll see both
so
here's the constructor way of creating
an array but for when we're kind of
working through stuff today we'll
probably just use literal notation
meaning that we are literally creating
an array using square
brackets
cool
now when we declare an array we can
declare it just like as an empty array
like we see here
we can also declare it with stuff inside
so here you can see i'm i'm assigning it
the value of zebra boolean of true
number 21. so any of the other data
structures that we've learned about so
far can go inside of arrays including
other arrays including objects anything
we could think about can go into our
arrays
nice
now the interesting thing about arrays
is that we have to talk about elements
and
indexes right
elements and indexes so here we can see
four elements new york city la sydney
and
london however if we're talking about
the first element we're talking about
new york but if we're talking about the
zeroth index we're also talking about
new york we've got to be careful the
difference between the word element and
the word index so new york is at the
zeroth index even though it is the first
element
in our array
cool
now
if we
look at this lovely toaster here
what is the element at the second index
thanks evergreen
yeah
sydney cindy is the element at the
second
index
uh what element is at the first index
nice la and what element is at the
fourth index
what elm is at the fourth index
undefined exactly there is no fourth
index we have
zero
one two three but four would give us
undefined
because it doesn't exist yet
nice undefined
all right
now
not only can we use the index to
add stuff to the array we can also use
the index to get stuff out of the array
so here we can see all right the zero
index would give us zebra
the first index would give us undefined
because there's nothing there
the second index would give us the
boolean of true and the third index
would give us the number of 21. so we
can get stuff out of the array using the
index we can also put stuff into the
array using the index so here i'm going
to fill up that empty space with bob and
so if we were to then console.log the
array again we see that bob is now part
of the array and it doesn't have to be
empty to put stuff in there you can
actually override any slot in the
toaster
by using its index
another tricky thing to keep in mind is
that you can overwrite whole arrays by
assigning an array to a different array
so here i have an array called cars that
has cars in it nums which has nums in it
if i do cars equals nums and i cancel
out cars well now i'm
console logging all my numbers so be
careful you can overwrite your whole
array
all right
arrays also come with a bunch of
properties and methods uh if you don't
know what properties methods are that
don't worry we're going to get to that
when we get to objects but length is a
property here and length will tell you
how many elements are in your array and
so it'll take a look at how many
elements in your array and it'll give
you the number of them back so if you
look at this right here
look at this array here
once we we have we have four slots or
sorry four elements in this array so if
we took the length of a new array then
we would get four
well numerator length gives us four
all right let's look at
some code here to practice this
we're going to look at in paradise after
paradise
in paradise after paradise is going to
pull that up
review in paradise after paradise
if you're new and you need the materials
for today they're on our discord
expression point discord agreed to the
rules and then in the following
materials challenge you'll see
everything that we're using for today
cool all right
here it is
create a function that takes in an array
if the first number is less than the
last number alert hi
if the first number is greater than the
last number alert by and if they're
equal alert we close in an hour so you
have to take in an array and then use
the indexes to compare the numbers
inside of the array let's put uh let's
put a three minutes on the clock here
three minutes let's get spicy with the
time here a little bit three minutes and
we're gonna go over it together
all right so go ahead give it the good
old hundred devs try and we're gonna go
over it together give me the full
function give me the the wonderful
alerts and we're gonna go over it
together you got this
how do i get vs code to fit my screen so
i don't do multiple uh comments so it's
called wrapping or soft wrapping
and so you can go into your settings and
turn it on there's also a
a keyboard command depending on
operating system you're on so if you're
on uh windows it's alt z
on macs i believe it's
option z or command z something like no
not command z option z maybe
option z on mac yeah
or you can just turn this you can toggle
the setting in the settings menu
obviously
okay music just decided to stop
we hit the end of the playlist what was
that
online
hold on
it's funky too
okay
all right spotify i know we've been
streaming for a while but we're still
here still online we still alive
oh man i wanted the funky stuff come on
now
oh
[Music]
getting caught by the playlist we are
don't words wrap automatically now it's
it's the text editor it does it for you
you might have already had yours turned
on
all right let's come on back let's take
a look at this together
all right
[Laughter]
create a function that takes in an array
all right function's gonna take in an
array
uh we're gonna look at the first number
the last number
i was gonna call this compare
array
and we're going to take in an array so
i'm just going to use ar short for array
and we're going to do a conditional
uh if the first number
is less than the last number so we can
do array and how can i get the first
number in an array
zero nice nice that's always gonna give
us the first number and we're gonna say
if the first number is less than the
last number so less than and how can i
get the last number what should the
what should be the value inside of my
square brackets me to get the last
number
yeah length minus one
some of you your python is showing
length minus one right so
if we have the array.length
uh that would tell us how many elements
are left in the array
and why would we have to do minus one
where does that come from
congrats alc
yeah because we start off at zero
exactly exactly
we start off at zero and so since we
start off at zero if there are four
elements in the array
well that means we're off by one so we'd
want to actually grab the number three
so four minus one would give us three
that would give us the last element in
the array because our indexes start at
zero and not one all right ready that
length minus one would give us the last
element we can compare is the first less
than the last and if it is we want to
alert
hi
else if
let's see if the first number is greater
than the last number so we'll kind of do
the same thing but we're going to put
the greater than in here
now the first one is greater than the
last one
we want to alert by
cool
and if it's not greater than or last
then the only thing that it can be is
equal we can just do an else
and we can alert
uh we
close in an hour
cool
there we go we got our comparison uh
let's just test it let's make sure it
works let's do compare
array
we're gonna pass in an array let's pass
in um
one two three four
five
in this case we know that the first
value is less than the last value
so we should expect it to alert hi
let's go ahead and open this in the
browser
first try
nice
let's go ahead and flip flop it
let's go ahead and do uh five
and one
and then let's also run it to where we
have five and five
right five and five so we should see
buy and then we close in an hour
let's refresh this
by
closing an hour first are you
nope
oh we got our comparison function
working we're able to use the values out
of the array
ready
got it right hey congrats it's huge
i wanted you to write r before
array.length because we are accessing
the array here
this stuff right here is going to
be a number basically so if we look
there is five elements in our array so a
radon length is actually five
we do 5 minus 1 which gives us 4
and then array 4 is going to access the
fourth index in the array so that's 0 1
4. that would give us the number one
right so all that's happening inside the
square brackets to give us a number then
we're using that number to access the
array
that's why
[Music]
this is brand new to you that hey this
is going to be rough if
this is your first time seeing a raise
remember this is something that we spent
two three classes on condensed into one
quick review yeah so we make sure if
you're still part of the catch-up crew
that you go back you watch this you
spend more time with it if things aren't
clicking that's totally okay
cool
all right let's keep pushing folks
all right let's talk about iterating
through our arrays
let's talk about iterating through our
arrays so here we have an array of best
colors
green blue yellow and black and then i
just have a regular old for loop here
where i'm looping through
uh and using i as my index to grab
colors out of this array and so if we
were to actually run this what we're
going to see
is the very first time that this loops
runs
i is 0
and so we're going to wind up console
logging what here the very first time
exactly because
if i is zero
then we're going to go ahead and grab
the element that's in the zeroth index
of best colors the best colors zero
index that is green the green will be
console logged first
then we're gonna add one to i and so now
i is one
is one
less than best colors dot length best
colors that length is 1 2 3 4. the best
color is that length is 4.
so is 1 less than 4 yes so we're going
to console.log best colors 1 which is
going to give us blue
and it would be 2
which would give us yellow
and then it'll be 3
which will give us black and then it'll
be at 4 and since 4 is not less than 4
it is the same
we stopped and so that's how we can
console log all the colors in this array
we'll see green then blue then yellow
and black
beautiful
i miss all the power rangers stuff me
too kangaroo me too
all right
also
built into arrays are methods that we
can use that do the iteration as
well
right
i can do the iteration as well so here
i'm using 4h which is a method built
into arrays that enables us to loop
through each element in the array
grabbing the element and the index as we
loop through i like to think of it as a
goblin that is going and grabbing the
element and the index every single time
for each runs now
just because the goblin is going and
grabbing that stuff doesn't mean you
actually need to use it so the very
first time for each runs the goblin's
going to go ahead and grab
green
zero
and actually the whole array
and so what we're going to do is we're
going to pass the green into x
we're going to pass 0 into i
and we actually don't have a parameter
for the array so nothing happens with it
and what we're going to want to do is
this console logging x is the very first
time this runs what gets console logged
green
right green's gonna get shown because
the goblin went and grabbed green
zero and the array and we only had a
bucket for green
and zero
the next time that this runs the goblin
grabs blue and one
so x is blue i is one and we console log
blue to the console then the goblin runs
again it grabs yellow and two
it passes in yellow so we cancel log
yellow
and we don't do anything with the number
two we're done goblin runs for the last
time grabs black
and three
we don't actually do anything with three
but we do console log black and so we
see black printed to the console so
we had an original kind of for loop when
we learned about loops that we could use
here where we had to keep our own count
we have to use that count as an index
or we can use the methods that are built
into arrays to iterate through the
elements that are in the array
beautiful
all right let's talk about some other
methods that are built into
arrays other things are going to make
our lives a little bit easier maybe less
to do things with arrays that we don't
have to code on our own so
here are
a list of the best rappers of 2020. uh
on that list was six nine
polo g and then actually six nine again
okay and what we wanted to do is we
wanted to shift
six nine off of that list and so when
you shift what you actually do
is you remove something off the front
of the array
all right you move something off the
front of the array so here we have
shifted
right we have shifted and we have lost
six nine on the front
all right and so now if we were to
console log best rappers 2020 we'd have
polo g and six nine on the end
cool
if we were to pop that does the same
thing as shift but on the n so shift
removes stuffing from the front pop
remove something from the back and so
with pop we're going to remove six nine
off the end the cool thing is whatever
you pop you can actually store in a
variable if you want it to but you are
messing with the array meaning that you
are literally removing it from the array
so when we console log
best rappers 2020 right now we are left
with polo g because we shift it six nine
off the front we pop six nine off the
back and we're just left with polo g
awesome
so now let's say we wanted to add some
wrappers to the best wrappers of 2020
what we're going to do here is we're
going to use unshift and what unshift
does is it takes something and puts it
on the front
of your array so here i've unshift
dailon onto the front of best wrappers
2020 and so if we look at best wrappers
2020 we have dylan on the front and
still having polo g so
shift remove something off the front pop
remove something off the end
unshift put something onto the front and
we have the same thing for the back
which is push so
i'm going to push dye line onto the back
and now we have dylon pullo g and dylon
on the end as well so
shift off the front pop off the back
unshift put on the front and push put on
the back and so now we have dailon polo
g dielon in the best wrappers of 2020
and we're gonna use one other
one
other method here right one other method
here and that's map
what's special about map what does map
do
what is special about map
it creates a new array exactly it
creates a new array it's a loop
that grabs the element in the index and
then creates a new array
i saw some i saw somebody saying i can't
understand math i can't understand map
um remember we talked about in the
beginning a baby doesn't sit in the
corner crying that they're never gonna
learn how to walk
you gotta take that negative self-talk
out your head you can't let that show on
your shoulders it's not that you can't
it's that you have to put a little bit
more work to get there right just like a
baby has to get up and fall get up and
fall it's the same thing with learning
how to code we can't let those those
those things creep into our brain that
says you can't do it of course you can
do it
thousands millions of people have
learned how to code they've been the
exact same spot where they felt like
they couldn't learn something and they
do just like a baby learns how to walk
you will learn how to use map cool
so map is a loop just like for each
and it's going to
all right
it's going to loop through
grab each element but it's going to
create a new array so
we have a new array called best rappers
of all time and so let's just put that
array up here
we're going to map through best rappers
of 2020 and so the very first time we
move through best rappers of 2020 we
grab
dilon
we pass it into x
and did we do anything with x
do we do anything with x inside this map
like look inside this map did we do
anything with x
no we did we even use x
what's the only thing that this map does
the only thing that this map does is it
returns a dialon that's it
it doesn't matter what it does not
matter what was in this best rapper's
2020 array
it's only going to return dailon and how
many times is map going to run
how many times is map going to run
three times exactly because if we look
map is running on best rappers 2020
and there's
three elements inside of that array
so we know that map is going to run
three times and the only thing that this
map does
is returns dylon right this is an
implicit return because it's an arrow
function and so best wrappers of all
time is the new array that we are
creating and it just doesn't matter what
was in best rappers 2020 is going to
return dialogue each time the best
rappers of each of all time gets dylon
then dylon
and then
nylon
right that map ran three times it really
didn't care what was in there because it
only returns dialogue each time and now
best wrappers of all time has three
dylons in it
right
then
we're going to unshift the dialogue
which is putting a dialon onto the front
we are going to push a dilon
onto the back
and then if we were to console.log best
wrappers of all time we would have
dielon dialon dylon dailon and dailon as
they spit the hot fire
cool
thank you thank you thick i appreciate
that
when can map be used map can be used
whenever you want to create a new array
so map will run once for each element in
the array it'll grab the element and the
index and instead of messing with the
old array it just puts your results into
a new array
cool
alrighty let's keep pushing here
let's look at winter
games winter games
all right let's close this one up let's
look at winter games here
review winter games is the name of the
folder there's a javascript file in here
create a function that takes in an array
of numbers
return a new array containing every even
number from the original array
now there's a there's a bonus let's say
this is a bonus
let's say this is a bonus do not use map
or filter
create a function it takes an array of
numbers returned a new array containing
every even number from the original
array and bonus if you can do it without
map or a filter
uh exactly jm we do need to create a
variable or else it just goes nowhere
exactly we'll just poof into thin air
cool all right folks let's do uh five
minutes on the clock for this one
take your five minutes and then we're
gonna go over it together
as far as you can give it the old 100
devs try and we're gonna go over it
together
[Music]
why would you map over an array instead
of having just make a new one because it
already does that for you
[Music]
i feel caught up already
that swamp like i can't take but no more
no more leah
i'm caught up
ah yeah glad that makes sense jim
do
got some dunzo's okay
i'm in the ketchup crew this is where
where around where i left off do you
recommend i leave here and there's the
vods later continue watching
i would keep watching
get your first pass here that way when
you actually go through the
material at your own pace it it might
trigger some some some recalling some
some space repetition
angry with the dunzo nice
done can't believe it
yep all the old lessons are on youtube
yep exclamation point youtube
[Music]
can we reviews with the bonus it just
makes it easier honestly because we
don't have to create a new array
should we do prep for these not not what
we're going to do in the review class
but if you had like this is like a code
wars question absolutely you should use
prep we don't have enough time to do
prep honestly prep should take around 15
minutes
like when you're prepping an actual like
coding question yeah 10 to 15 minutes
yup pie exactly
it's a new struggle using prep for code
wars yeah a little bit extra work
a little over a minute left then we're
going to go over it together and then
we'll take our 10 minute break and then
come back to objects let's go
what are you gonna do when you're done
tonight ruby i said um
i got some new
game boy advance games i got the analog
pocket pro
or sorry the analog pocket
so i got a bunch of like old game boy
advance games that i got
and i got to put new batteries in them
so i think i'm going to replace the
batteries
on them
that's what i'll do
and then plan out my week
yep
advanced wars is up there at my favorite
pokemon my favorite game boy advanced
games too it's an amazing game
[Music]
all right folks come let's come back
through it
are you into vintage games uh gameboy is
like my main console growing up so i'm
getting back into like game boy and game
boy advanced games right now
they're also easier for me to get into i
don't really i don't have super
amounts of like free time and so
um i really like game boy like the
analog pocket i can just like pause the
game where i'm at put it to the side and
pick it back up if i'm like traveling
somewhere or waiting i can just like
resume my game so that's been really
pretty cool so i've been into that for a
little while
all right folks let's take a look at
this
all right
create a function that takes in an array
of numbers let's start there function
face an array of numbers um only
evens is what we'll call this one and
we're gonna take an array of numbers
uh return a new array containing every
even number so if i can't use map and i
have to return an array of every even
number
um then i might as well go ahead and
create a new array
let only
evens
equal
and it'll just be a an empty array
and then what i can do is i can kind of
just like loop through my array
array.for each
and i can loop through each number and
if it's an even number i can like push
it to the array right
so if it's even i can push it to the
array so
let's say i wanted to go ahead and
create a
a
a 4-h here so what for each i can pop
off the element and the index but do i
really need the index here or can i just
use the element
i actually need the element right
let's just do the element
and i can go ahead and i can kind of do
my curly braces here and so now i'm
going to grab the element each time how
can i tell if it is
if it is an even number
how can i tell if it's an even number
yeah we can use the modular structure we
saw earlier tonight so let's do another
if here
we do if
e
if e
mod 2
equals zero we know it's even and if
it's even what do we want to do
if it's even what do we want to do
i'm gonna push it so we would do only
evens.push
and we would push whatever the element
currently is
and so that would go ahead and push
an even number into our only evens and
then the last thing we need to do is
return
our new array so we'll return
only
evens
let's name this function just like that
only evens finder there we go
cool as we return only evens and so if
we were to call this again let's call
this only
evensfinder
and we were to pass in an array of one
two three four five six
uh we should get an array that has 2 4 6
inside of it but not 1 3 5 and right now
since this is a return this would poof
into thin air and disappear so i'm going
to wrap this in a console log
cool
all right let's save this and see if it
works and then we'll come back
and see
how we did it
all right let's open up the html file
open in the browser
let's look at the inspector
look at the console and we have an array
in the console it's a good sign and we
can see that there's two four six so
definitely worked right we only have we
have an array of numbers it's just the
even numbers two four and six which is
exactly what we expected so
first try
let's take a look at this uh it was to
not use map or filter so that's why i
didn't use map or filter in this and we
created uh an array
just an empty array i looped through the
array that we passed into the function
and i grabbed every number so e here is
just each element
i think maybe a better better variable
here would have been like num
just because it it is a number each time
so i like numb a little bit better here
and so i know i'm gonna grab the first
num so the very first time that this
runs
num is one
one mod two is not zero so that doesn't
work
next time this runs it's two
so two mod two does equal zero and so we
would push whatever num is which is two
and so two went into our array and so
now our only evens array has the number
two in it
then three
into num three mod two does not equal
zero so we skip it
then four
or mod two does equal zero so then we
would push
four into the array so now our array has
two and four in it and we're going to do
five
where we see num it's five five month
two does not equal zero so we skip it
then the very last time this runs number
six six month two does equal zero so we
push 6 into our array we wind up with 2
4 6 sitting in that array and then we
return
only evens which is 2 4 6. so it's as
though
this right here became the array of two
four
six and that's what got console logged
beautiful
now we could do this with map or filter
it's the same thing but instead of
having like this
uh array here
right instead of having this array here
we could just maybe swap this to
let's just say return
all right let's get the return away from
here and we just change this into a map
right
and it still works
right it still works because now
map is going to return a what
app is going to return to what
but we would get rid of like this
conditional we would just do um
num
mod 2
equals 0
right and then we could we could just
return it or maybe maybe filter here
would probably be best
all right we could filter it out
cool
same thing
but let's keep the for loop here for now
for folks that are trying to do it
and this is one that practice it right
practice it go ahead and try doing the
other ways and then if you get stuck ask
on discord but uh yeah this is a pretty
pretty good example of kind of combining
everything that we've done so far in
terms of knowing how to loop using for
each knowing how to push uh knowing how
to use the conditional logic that we've
seen so far using modulus again
and uh passing an array into a function
understanding that we're returning an
array and so it would just return and
poof into the effer and so we can
console.log it to actually see it
boom
all right
let's go ahead and take our break
we just got through our arrays when we
come back we're moving into
objects uh and so i promise we'll take a
10 minute break this time let's take 10
minutes if you're able to please get up
move around hydrate you got to get some
light stretching if possible if you're
kind of if you if you
i've been paying attention this whole
time let your eyes focus on something
that's not your screens please you get
some light hand stretches in and uh
let's put 10 minutes on the clock here
chat what are objects
everything
hmm
try to use a little bit of oat milk oh
delicious
everything well in javascript everything
yeah but a collection
of variables and functions exactly a
collection of variables and functions
however when these variables are tied to
our objects we call them properties put
up cuber and whenever the functions are
tied to objects we call them
methods so they're just collections of
variables and functions we call them
properties and methods and in javascript
objects do the heavy lifting
all right now when we first start
thinking about objects i really do like
to think of like a physical object and
so i was to start off with a stopwatch
what are some of the attributes or
properties of this stopwatch and be
careful not their values but the
attributes or properties of the
stopwatch in chat
color is a good one
brand shape
size
model is a good one
texture okay
all right i like that yeah so we have a
uh a shape property of round
a color property of black
a brand property of accusplit a model of
pro survivor
a oh
i gotta show you something hold on give
me one second
one second
verb
hold on
so
y'all know i love my reality television
that's what i that's what i do if i'm
not coding i'm not teaching i'm watching
trash television but
one uh series i really love
that me and my wife watch is called
survivor
and so you all know i wear buffs
constantly
it's pretty much always in my hair so my
wife got me this lovely
this lovely buff
oh
still merch coming soon
feel merch
i feel merch
i feel a merchant tingling
where does it tanked out that's that's
what the the blip account is for the
only fans is for
yeah so
since we since survivor made me think of
this so yeah
there we go
still waiting on 100 speedos
if we could i would
all right
so we talked about some of the
properties of it shape color
brand model
even like minutes seconds milliseconds
here
and then
the
what are some behaviors or methods that
are tied to this object
pause the check
start stop
mode yep
beep
reset nice so there's there's some
things that this
this
stopwatch object can do some of its
behaviors or methods so we see
properties and methods tied to a real
object well
when we create objects in
javascript we can also give them these
properties and methods so here
i've created a stopwatch using literal
notation we'll see a constructor and
class way of creating objects but this
is a constructor using regular old
literal syntax meaning i'm literally
creating an object and then i'm giving a
current time property using what kind of
notation
what type of notation am i using here to
give it a current time property
yeah dot notation and down here i'm
using dot notation again to give it a
method of tell time now how do i know
that this is a property current time and
tell time is a method what's the
difference here
why am i calling this a method and this
a property
yeah one is a function right
so when it's tied to a function that's
how we know it is a method and down here
i'm calling the telltime method and i'm
passing in stopwatch.currenttime
as a property so stopwatch that current
time is actually
i'm passing in 12 here
and then
12 is going in as the property and so
i'm sorry as the parameter so the
current time is
12. and so we can use both the method
and the property that we set on the
object nice
now let's go ahead and open up the
objects listen to your heart please
objects listen to your heart i'm going
to close this one
and we're going to go to objects
listen to your heart
there's a javascript file in here
however following here i want you to go
ahead and create a stopwatch that has
four properties and three methods we're
gonna put two minutes on the clock for
this one this one we've done a lot
using dot notation and literal object
notation no constructors or classes yet
two minutes on the clock
go as fast as you can stopwatch object
four properties three methods
you got this go
[Music]
yup savored just get into objects now
going strong
how can i get this whole file if you go
to our discord exclamation point discord
agree to the rules and there's a follow
along materials channel that has the zip
that has all of these files
that's funny flat
how do you put objects in a database
we'll get to back-end development soon
and we'll be using mongodb so you know
understand objects you can use mongodb
to put your stuff into a database for
sure
do points not accumulate on sundays no
you get channel points whenever we're
live
oh glad i hope the install went well
stop that smell equals new i love it all
right folks let's come together and do
this one real quick
all right let's go ahead and create the
stopwatch using literal notation so let
stopwatch equal and we'll use the curly
braces boom we just literally created a
stopwatch object let's give it four
properties stopwatch
dot color
equals black
stopwatch
dot shape
equals
round
i do double quotes here i like single
quotes
about that single quotes life these days
all right round uh stopwatch
dot
for some of the ones we saw
brand
i set it equal to nike
and stopwatch
dot
i like that one it was smell it was
funny
new
all right and then let's do some methods
here
let's do stopwatch dot start
which equals a function
and we're going to make that function
console.log
run
great
stopwatch dot stop
that's going to be a function
and we're just going to tell it to
console.log stop running
that's right we're going to leave it
that way and then stopwatch
what's the give me one more method
what's the last amount give me another
method here we have a start a stop
what's what's the last method i should
use here let me give some ideas here in
chat
alarm morph
all right morph
and we're gonna set that equal to a
function
and it's just going to console log
it's morph in time
cool all right so now we got our four
we got our four
properties
our three methods if we were to open
this in the browser
we should be able to access the stop i
gotta change that photo um
we got to go ahead and do
we look for stopwatch
we can see that there is a stopwatch
object that we created
right if we ask for stopwatch
dot brand we get nike back
if we do stopwatch dot
start
we would just get the function back if i
want the function to run what do i need
i want the method to run what do i need
listen to your hours it was pretty bad
we need the parentheses all right so if
we hit that
ready three two one let's hit it
run
all right that method worked really well
cool
all right here we go so our stopwatch
looks good we had four properties
we had three methods
it looks like we're doing all right here
all right let's keep it moving
all right what if we wanted to make
a lot of objects
if we want to make like a lot of objects
not like just one or two like if we look
at this
if we were using this type of notation
like this little notation and we're
adding properties and methods if we want
to create another object what do we have
to do right now without knowing anything
else what we need to do if we want to
create a whole new object
yeah we would have to like copy and
paste
all of this change it to like stopwatch
two for all of these
and it would just it would that code
would not be what
the code would not be what
you really really yeah it would not be
dry at all because we're literally
copying and pasting what we want to do
is we want to have something that can
spit out a bunch of objects for us so in
the real world we have like factories so
let's say we went to create a bunch of
car objects we could have a factory that
spits out all of these cars and so at
first we're gonna use constructors so we
can spit out a bunch of objects and then
we're gonna put a little syntactical
sugar on top and get classes so let's
take a look at this
here is a constructor function
and what a constructor function enables
us to do
is to spit out
objects so it is a function
whose job is to help us create
objects
right so if we look
here we have this lovely function
and it starts off with a capital letter
does this capital letter do anything
special to this function
nope
exactly evan it is just a convention
the capitalist is a convention so that
you and i both know that this is a
constructor
and then inside the constructor we have
some really important bits we have the
this
and all of these things that follow
after the dots what this is doing is
making an object that has that property
whatever object comes out of this make
car constructor is going to have a
property of make a property of model a
property of color a property of doors a
method of hunk and a method of lock
simply by being created by this
constructor we get these different
properties and these different methods
and they're bound to the object that is
being spit out because of the this
keyword if we didn't have this keyword
we couldn't create an object that has
those properties and methods
so down here we're going to go ahead and
use the new keyword
along with our constructor and we're
going to pass in the different values so
if we go ahead and we create a new honda
civic
we can go ahead and create honda civic
equals new using the make car function
we're going to pass in honda
honda goes into car make
civic
goes into car model
silver goes in the car color and four
goes into number of doors so we wind up
having right what we wind up having
is
car make equaling honda
our model equaling civic
number uh car color equals silver
number of doors equals four and it also
has these honk and lock methods so if we
were to run this
like we just put this into the
inspector here
think
zip
and i was the ass back for honda civic
we would see that honda civic is an
object that came from the make car
constructor and we can see that it has a
color property a doris property a make
and model properties but it also has two
methods
hunk and
lock
cool
we can also take a look at the tesla
roadster
if we ask for the tesla roadster back we
can see that it too is a car
made from the make car constructor but
we can see that it's its values are
different the color is red the make is
tesla the model is roadster the doors is
two instead of four but it still has the
same honk and lock methods as the others
cool
put doggo on the camera
oh they're running around
all right
now
we talked about this other really
they right they ran into the other room
russell wood
disappeared uh if
we noticed something very interesting is
that all of the cars that came out of
our make car constructor
right all these cars
we forgot to give them bluetooth
right
we we forgot to give them a bluetooth
oh y'all want the dog doggo tax let's
see hold on
i do i do community goals still
let's see
battle points
add a new community challenge
simba
on cam
for
five seconds
on cam for five seconds goal amount
one million channel points
there you go
we have a new community challenge that
has just started
this is if you want simba on cam for
five seconds it's a million channel
points
now back to our regularly scheduled
programming
already
i'm too busy to watch this now but i
wanted to come in and say that you're
all about baddies and i'm proud of you
all i can't wait to watch this later hey
jazzy fans i appreciate that coming in
here and encouraging folks that have
been here for hours a i appreciate that
all right
so we have these lovely constructors
that are spitting out objects
however we notice when we made our
civic and our roadster
that they uh they didn't have bluetooth
and if i go ahead and open up the
inspector again
and i asked for honda civic
i can see i get it back if i ask for
tesla roadster i get it back but if i
ask for tesla roadster dot bluetooth
you can see that it's undefined like it
doesn't have bluetooth now
i could if i wanted to
give bluetooth just to the tesla
roadster right like if i was to go ahead
and do
bluetooth equals true
well now the tesla roadster
has bluetooth and if we if we were to
look at its properties
we can see that now it has a bluetooth
property of true
but what if
i wanted to have every
single car that ever came out of our
constructor have bluetooth
right
right what if i wanted to have every
single
right
every single car that came out of this
constructor to have bluetooth what would
i need to do
i would need
i would need to go to grandma exactly so
what would i need to do i need to go to
grandma and so
what i could do
is i could
i could put something on what we call
the prototype so the way i think about
this is let's say i don't have a car
since i don't have a car i could ask my
mom if they have a car
if my mom doesn't have a car my mom
could ask their mom my grandma for a car
and if grandma has a car well i got a
car right and so it's the same thing
here with our objects
objects always check themselves before
they wreck themselves meaning they're
going to look at themselves first
right now tesla roadster has bluetooth
because we gave it bluetooth however
honda civic doesn't have bluetooth right
if the honda civic checks itself it
doesn't have bluetooth so what the honda
civic is going to do is it's going to go
to its parent
and it's parent right now
its parent is what what is the parent of
the honda civic
it's maker exactly the make car
constructor exactly the civic came out
of the make car constructor so
honda civic checks itself do i have
bluetooth no
so then it goes up to the
parent which is the constructor that
says hey do you have bluetooth no and
then it goes all the way up to the
global object prototype which is grandma
see if anything has bluetooth since all
these things struck out then it just
defaults to saying you know what i don't
have bluetooth but what we can do just
like if we wanted to add bluetooth to
all of our cars uh back in there we used
to do like a recall where all the cars
would have to come back into the shop we
would add bluetooth to them we could
think of it now as like over-the-air
updates like we can update
all of our our cars at one time by
extending the constructor's prototype so
we can go ahead and do make car
dot prototype dot bluetooth
equal true
now
when i ask for honda civic dot bluetooth
i get true
and so what happened here let's think
about it
honda civic checked itself
did a honda civic have
a bluetooth property
like did itself have a bluetooth
property
sympathy hey thank you for the raid hope
you're doing well
thank you for coming through
are we streaming what are we all up to
no
so so right now we're in the middle
of explaining prototypal inheritance in
javascript uh if you if you don't know
what to do we do a free 30-week software
engineering bootcamp uh everything from
having never touched code to everything
you need to be employable we do it all
free and all live here on twitch uh we
are
underway with a seven we're almost seven
hours into our review class on just
javascript getting us ready to move into
back and web development with node this
upcoming week so you joined us in a in a
in a doozy of a day but glad you're here
thank you for stopping by raiders
everything i hope your stream went well
hope everything's going well with you
all right
so
since we added bluetooth
to our make car prototype
honda civic is going to check itself
like the object itself for bluetooth and
does object itself like does honda civic
have bluetooth like does itself have
bluetooth
no
honda civic does not have bluetooth so
it goes up the prototype chain
to
right goes up the prototype chain to its
parent and since we just added bluetooth
on the parent well now honda civic has
bluetooth
dion a welcome
now it has bluetooth right and so we are
able to go up the prototype chain to
look for these fallback sources of
properties and methods but now here's
something tricky
we got to remember what we just did not
too long ago
tesla roadster
when it checked itself
did it have bluetooth
no it well sorry sorry tesla roadster it
did tesla roadster already has bluetooth
let's look at these hold on let's look
at these
all right let's look at these
let's look at these ready let's look so
let's look at honda civic
is there a bluetooth property on honda
civic here at all
no
but when we look at tesla roadster we
got to remember that on tesla roadster
we gave it its own
bluetooth property not that long ago
so tesla roadster
has its own
bluetooth property right has its own
bluetooth property and so tesla roadster
checks itself
sees that it has bluetooth and stops
there
that's it it's over it's done
right because we added it earlier
honda civic however checks itself
doesn't see anything and has to go up
the prototype chain to get it
right so it's different
it's different tesla roadster already
has it because we added it one off but
honda civic is using that prototype
chain to get it from the make car
constructor
timothy you created a steam page
uh you can't post links in chat but if
you go ahead and send me a whisper with
it i'll i'll spam it in our chat can we
wish listed already like is that what
you mean by the page like we can
wishlist it that'd be cool
whisper me the thing and i'll i'll spam
it in chat
if you're still here
all right is this inheritance yeah this
is how inheritance is handled right
uh this is how it's handled in
javascript even when we move on to
classes
right even when we move on to classes
it's still this prototype underneath the
underneath the hood let's look at
something else interesting here
so we know that there's a doors property
on these so like tesla roadster
dot doors is two
let's do something interesting let's do
tesla roadster dot doors dot two
string
so we can see that we were able to
call a two string method
on tesla roadster
right we were to call a two-string
method on tesla roadster if we look at
tesla roadster
does it have a two string method
no
did the make car constructor
have a two string method
did the make car constructor have a two
string method
no
so whose house did we have to go all the
way up to
we didn't have it our parent didn't have
it who do we have to go to
we had to go all the way to grandma's
exactly and in this case the grandma is
the global object prototype so
global object prototype
i'm sure it'll pop up on the mdn
let's just do mdn here there we go boom
so if we look at the global object
prototypes like all the stuff that's
built in
in javascript if we look
there's two string right here so if we
look there's two string so
tesla roadster didn't have two string
the make car constructor didn't have two
string so we went all the way up to
grandma's house which in this case is
the global object prototype and then we
had access to two string
right and so since grandma has two
string we go all the way back down the
prototype chain
and our tesla roadster is able to use it
our honda civic is able to use it they
all get access to these fallback sources
of properties and methods and so this is
the beginnings of how inheritance is
handled in javascript we definitely
spend way more time on this in our
individual classes way more time than we
can spend during in just the review but
that's the basics of it and then we're
going to see
when we get to oop how we can utilize
this like mechanism to do our
inheritance but the idea here is that
this is the basis of it
all right let's go ahead and take a look
at the
objects street fighter work please so if
you go ahead uh in the materials if
you're new from the raid and want to
join us uh on discord exclamation point
discord if you agree to the rules you'll
see a follow-along materials channel and
when you go into that channel you'll see
the zip for today which has all of our
starter code so object street fighter
i want you to please create a street
fighter constructor that makes a
fighting game character with four
properties and three
methods
so fighting game constructor bringing in
character with four properties and three
methods let's put three minutes on the
clock for this one
because we got to do the constructor
this time three minutes on the clock
give it your best hundred devs try and
we're gonna go over it together you got
this go go deep
[Music]
will a single wait and promise to be
part of the subaru no because we haven't
gotten to them in class yet um that'll
be our class on tuesday and then
thursday's node
minute 30 left folks
am i connected to an external display
yeah i have i have three oh
i have three monitors
my laptop screen and an ipad
yeah it's pretty pretty beefy setup
definitely not needed though
[Music]
are they gaming monitors yeah i have one
gaming monitor that's a 4k
uh 160 sorry the 4k 160 hertz
monitor
another 4k and then just like a really
crappy 1080p monitor
but i don't pay for any of my stuff this
is all pd funds
every bit attack i have i have not paid
for
[Music]
on my game on pc
so i can switch from
my whole setup i have three buttons i
press and it switches from mac to pc i
press three buttons and it all goes from
pc to mac with my entire screens and
everything
all right folks come on back come on
back
all right
let's create a street fighter
constructor that makes a fighting game
characters with four properties and
three methods so function
uh let's call it street fighter
and
let's go ahead and what are we what are
gonna what do what do what are some
properties that we want our street
fighter to have
what are some properties
kvm life exactly
name
uh
let's see name
health
speed that's cool
and
special move
there we go all right so let's set this
up this
dot name equals name
this dot health
equals health
this dot speed equals
speed and uh this dot
special move equals
special move
cool
how about some uh some methods here what
are some methods
throw
i like that
this dot throw equals
function
this console log
cool
what else
taunt
this dot taunt equals function
go ahead and do a console log
let's use a template string here
you can't
handle
my and then we're going to throw in
using a template string here
special move
but we want to make sure we tie it to
the special move that this object has so
this that special move that's going to
give us the special move that whatever
the object comes out of has
cool and one last one here
i don't
street fighter folks
you know what screw it
but make some nerds mad right now
get over
here
get over here
go all right
and let's go ahead and create
let's go ahead and create one of these
street fighter objects
let's say let um
chun li equal
new
street fighter
we're gonna pass the name
chun li
health 100 speed
definitely 100
special move we looked this up last time
what's the kick thing called again
oh we looked this up last time
spinning bird kick there's like a
fancier name for it though
hurt kick
all right
there we go
cool
all right and so we can save all this
let's go ahead and open this in the
browser
and let's go ahead and use the inspector
console
let's ask for chun li back and we can
see that they are a street fighter
character with a fatality method a
health property a name a special move a
speed a taunt and a throw
let's go ahead and do chun-li.taunt
and you can't handle my spinning bird
kick
twirling avian foot punch
alrighty
cool
so we got our constructor review in
it's going to chill the music here
and um
with the newer versions of javascript
however when we got to es6 and forward
we got some syntactical sugar
that went top of our constructors
called classes and so a lot of other
languages have classes built into them
we added the sugar on top
of our we added the sugar on top of our
actual
constructors to make it easier for folks
that were joining us
make it easier for folks that were
joining us hold on one second
she's like you've been streaming for too
long
all right
alrighty so
we added this lovely syntactical
sugar-free symbol
we added this lovely syntactical sugar
on top of our constructors to make it
easier for folks coming from other
languages
and but underneath the hood it's still
prototypal inheritance
right
underneath the hood it's still
prototypal inheritance nothing's really
changed it's still the same deal so the
syntax is a little bit different
right we use this class with the make
car we include our constructor inside of
it and then our methods don't require
the this keyword they're bound
automagically
cool
that sound is 20k 20 000
20 000
channel points for that cell that's wild
all right
let's go ahead where are we at
all right we're pretty close to the top
of the hour
um let's go ahead and take a look at our
apis
and we're going to take a break very
soon
um actually let's take a break a little
bit early let's put five minutes on the
clock
five minutes on the clock
uh we will take our break if you're able
please get up move around hydrate when
we come
back from break we're gonna dive into
apis welcome back welcome back let's get
into this
home stretch how long we've been going
for
almost seven hours exactly let's go turn
up hold on 10 second warning 10 second
warning
five seconds
four three two one
[Music]
so
hey does this work
our elsif our elsif our elsa
all righty everybody
oh
let's get into it
boy
we've covered a lot so far folks a lot
so far tonight and our seven hours of
being live so we so far let's recap we
started off with the basics of
javascript what is programming what the
heck is a program
all the way from fundamentals like basic
logic building up the basic logic gates
to building up to a language that we can
understand that is javascript we covered
the big four the variables the functions
the loops the conditionals we added
arrays and objects on top and now we're
getting to apis folks we're gonna get
the apis we're gonna do a little oop
we're gonna talk about the hunt
feeling good i'm feeling good
all right uh chat
what are apis
hey a simple interface for a complex
action let's go just a simple interface
for a complex
action that's all it is
simple interface for a complex action
so let's think about let's think about a
tv
i got a tv
in front of me i want to turn the tv off
that's in front of me
all right i want to turn off the tv
that's in front of me what can i do
what's like what's the most primal thing
i could do to turn off that television
i could smash the crap out of it i could
rip it off the wall throw it on the
ground boom tv is turned off i could rip
the power cord out the back boom turned
off
now
is that the best way to turn off our
televisions
probably not
there's probably some better ways to
know if our televisions uh apparently
a lot of times televisions come with a
remote
and that remote has an interface
and on that interface is a button that i
can press to turn off my television but
think about all the complex stuff that
has to happen when i press that button
right the button press triggers an ir
sensor the ir sensor received by the
television television has all this
circuitry inside that hears that request
figures out what it needs to do turns
off the television
right
it's just
an interface the interface in this case
is the remote that enables us to do some
complex action i also like to think
of a menu at a restaurant
starting to lose my voice a little bit
tonight i think i'm going to need to get
some some noodle soup after this and so
i'm thinking of some pho all right so
i'm going to go to my favorite faux
restaurant when i sit down they're going
to give me a menu
and from that menu i can choose
something
and some complex action is going to
happen
in the kitchen
right some complex action is gonna
happen in the kitchen now do i know
what's happening do i know how they're
chopping uh the onions so i know how
they're preparing the tofu do i know how
much water they're using to to make the
noodles do i know how they're combining
i don't
i just say vegan pho
and out comes a delicious bowl of soup
the thing that's happening in
the interface like the interface is the
menu but what's happening that complex
action i have no control over right i
just use my interface and a delicious
bowl of soup comes my way
diwa vera
hey thank you for the hydration curious
to you
thank you so
the idea here is that we have these
interfaces that we can use
and when we use the interface something
complex happens just like i can look at
the menu point to vegan pho and then all
these complex stuff happens in the
kitchen and i get a delicious bowl of
soup back well
when we're using web apis a very similar
thing is happening we are making a
request
that request is going to a server and
that server is responding with some
information and so just like i said
vegan pho that request goes to the
kitchen and i get a bowl of back we are
going to use urls as our interface so
instead of a menu or a remote we're
going to use urls we can make requests
to those urls which is where a server
will hear that request the server will
do what it has to do to generate the
response and then it's going to respond
back to us and typically instead of
sending us a bowl of soup as much as we
would want we're typically going to get
an object back or a javascript object
notation back and once we get that
object back we can parse it and play
with it and make it do the things that
we want to do with it so
apis simple interface that does
something complex the wave appears that
we're using instead of it being a menu
or remote it's a url we make a request
that url we get a response as json or
objects back
so here is a quick example we have this
lovely fetch
where we make a request to the dog ceo
api and we get some data back let's go
ahead and try this real quick
open up my inspector here
boom
and you can see that i got a lovely
message back that includes a lovely dog
photo and a status of success so i was
able to use this url to make a request
the server heard my request and sent a
response all this complex stuff had to
happen on the server that i don't care
about had no control over they had to
like hear my request they had to go to
the database to get a photo they had to
put together the object and then send it
my way
and then what i was able to do was make
sure i was dealing with json or an
object basically and then i was able to
console log the response they sent me
that response got sent through data and
i console logged the whole thing so i
was able to make a request to a url
that
server did a bunch of stuff on its end
sent me a response and i'm able to use
that response to do some cool stuff
and so let's go ahead and open up the
dog
photos
uh starter code so dog photo starter
code here
go ahead and close these two that we're
working on before
dog photos let's go ahead and open up
objects and dog photos
main js here we open up the html while
i'm here as well
beautiful
all right so the prompt is get a dog
photo from the dog ceo api
and place the photo in
the dom cool
let's go ahead
and
put three minutes on the clock for this
one three minutes on the clock
you're basically copying pasting and
then trying to get the return into the
dom so go ahead and try it three minutes
and we're gonna go over it together
you got this
is this consider scraping no
uh because we are making a request and
they are giving us a response scraping
would be like when you go to their site
and you grab everything on your own
they've set this up so that when you
press the button on your remote or you
order off the menu you get this stuff
back so it's not scraping because we're
literally making the request to them and
they're giving us data back scraping you
do it on your own you don't they don't
actually give you anything
can we set up servers with our own apis
oh boy are you gonna have a lot of fun
this upcoming next two weeks
that's what we're gonna do first is
build our own api so that people can
make a request to our servers and get
data back
remember you can just use the example
from the slides here let's go ahead and
copy that start if you're having trouble
starting
all you got to do point it
minute 20 left you got this push push
push
so we're building a power rangers api we
could
really easy we'll see people think the
back end is this really big hard thing
to do now we're gonna make it easy
i know it sounds like a big big thing to
say but it really is
uh pretty pretty
pretty fun i think once you get to the
back end it becomes a lot fun because
you can you can build whatever the heck
you want like having that power to build
whatever you want is intoxicating
mikey with the dunzo e
super remotes at coding rocks i agree
what's your favorite punk band
that's hard
i mean like right now like i mentioned
last class two classes ago like right
now i'm really into idols if you
consider them like new punk
i mean i grew up on sex pistols but
that's kind of generic
[Music]
but yeah i mean i don't care i like what
i like sex pistols is always my favorite
growing up
all right folks come on let's go ahead
and do this
favorite concert you ever attended oh
that's an interesting question uh
it was a wiz khalifa concert it was lit
it was like real lit
i was probably one of my favorite
concert experiences
that and when i got to see five iron
frenzy live like that was like uh
i was a spiritual moment
in a basement
yeah
yeah so i i think most of it was
definitely was khalifa and then like
favorite like transcended reality was
a five iron frenzy in a basement in
boston cambridge
all right
let's go ahead and take a look at this
together i'm just going to copy this
while we're here you ink
all right get a photo from the dog co
api and place the photo into the dom
all right
so now we have our fetch our fetch is
how we like press the button on the
remote it's how we make the request like
pointing to the item on on the menu
right we're going to make our fetch
that's going to make the request to the
server the server will hear our request
and hopefully responds with some
information
whatever they respond with we're going
to parse as though it's json or
javascript object notation and then
whatever they send us back will be
passed into data so the very first thing
i want to do is just console.log the
data and see if we're getting anything
back
all right see if we're getting anything
yep oh this is the right one let me open
up the right file
all right here we go let's open this in
the browser
let's see if we're getting anything back
first
all right we did get an object back
which is great
we can see that it has a message
property and a status property
and the message property
right the message property is actually
an image i know we can't see there we go
it's actually an image so what i want to
do is i'm going to be able to just grab
the message so i can just grab the image
so let's go back here and instead of
console logging data i'm going to use
the message property here and do dot
message
and do dot message all right let's save
this
let's refresh
all right now we're just getting the
image which is nice
right now we're getting just the image
back
adjust the image back
and now i can use that to my advantage
if i want i can use that to
to be put into the dom because i would
see it we want to place the photo into
the dom let's go ahead and take a look
here
we do have an image already in the dom
so let's go ahead and put the source for
this image as whatever came back from
data dot message
let's go ahead and do that here in the
javascript so let's target the image
document.queryselector
and let's go ahead and do image
and then let's change the source of the
image to whatever came back from the api
or whatever is in data dot
message
cool so that should grab the url that we
got back
and plug it in as the source on the
image that we already have in the dom
and if we come back and refresh
daw look at the little
little doggo
dawg
dory's a cutie patootie
look at that
[Laughter]
oh
so pretty
oh my gosh
it's a pretty dog
tervuren
i've never heard of that type of dog
before
her
tervuren
cool
really pretty right wow
all right so it's working we're able to
each time we refresh
each time we refresh the page
right
each time we refresh the page we're
making a new fetch
that request is going all the way to the
dog ceo api
they're hearing our request and they're
responding with a json object we're able
to parse through that
json object get what we want out of it
and use it to update our dom with an
image source and that's why we're able
to see
the image in the dom
cool
alrighty
let's keep it moving folks i'm going to
close some of these because we got a lot
of tabs open look at all these tabs we
had open
oh we've been putting it on work let's
go
turn up
all right we cut it some dog photos
[Laughter]
now there's also like another step that
we can take this which is
where our
the url that we're passing
sometimes we're going to want to pass
some extra bits of information
along to
the api provider right so with the dog
ceo it's dog ceo api we just made a
generic request like hey
we hit that one url give us something
back but with something like the
cocktail database we can ask for
specific stuff back so here i'm saying
hey i'm going to pass in a query
parameter
called s with a value of margarita and
so this is short for search it's going
to enable us to get just margherita
drinks back and so the cool thing here
is that
a lot of times we're going to have like
a base url
and then after the base url you're going
to put a question mark and then all your
key value pairs your query parameter
value pairs so
s is the query parameter and then
margarita is the value so you could do s
equals margarita and then
if you want to chain
multiple query parameters right if you
want to change multiple query parameters
uh what do we put in between each query
parameter value pair how do we how do we
how do we keep adding multiple query
parameters
yeah we add an ampersand just one though
just one and so we could have s equals
margarita
and day equals saturday right whatever
whatever they tell us to do
right we'd have to read the
documentation to know what query
parameters they accept but once we know
what query parameters they accept we can
build out our urls so we can get those
specific drinks back
all right
so let's take a look at this one real
quick let's let's uh let's use this real
quick here
um we're going to just grab this url
just so we can see
yoink i'm gonna go back to our dog ceo
api here
um
i'm gonna put this up here
and i'm just gonna copy this
so that we have a clean one
sitting here
and then i'm gonna have the one that
we're gonna mess with here
all right so instead of hard coding the
url here i'm just gonna use our variable
from up top url
and the cool thing is we can see that
all right here's our question mark which
means everything that follows afterwards
is a key value pair so here we're saying
s equals margarita we can change this to
whatever the heck we want because it
accepts a lot of different drinks i
think we saw whiskey was one i think we
saw that um gin was one a bunch of
different stuff and each time we do this
we're gonna be able to get a different
uh type of drink back so let me get rid
of the specialized stuff we have here
let's just console log data and see what
we are getting back when we hit the
cocktail database and the cool thing if
you're working with this
uh database that there is like
non-alcoholic drinks too so if you want
that you can use the non-non-alcoholic
version as well
all right so let's go ahead and
go to our site here let's refresh bye
bye to this beautiful dog
and you can see that we are getting
drinks back from the api
this always blows did you see how fast
this is it just blows my mind like this
request
left my computer
went through a vpn from the vpn all the
way to their server their server heard
my request generated the response
responded to this responded back to the
vpn all the way to my computer and then
back here and i was like like a second
not even this blows my mind that this is
how the internet works and it's so fast
right like this had to go to somebody
else's server it had to go to somebody
else's server and back
right like that that just blows my mind
every single time i work with this
though i'm just like what
cool
all right so we got some stuff back we
got some drinks back
i got some drinks back
and uh we can see that there is a drinks
property but that drinks property is a
what
the drinks property is a what
it's an array
and then in that array they're
objects
and then in those objects they're
properties so i just want to get the
drink photo let's kind of do the same
thing we just did but this time instead
of being cute dogs it'll be pictures of
drinks so straw drink thumb is inside
the drinks
objects that are inside the drinks array
so what we can do here is we know we're
gonna get some data back
and we know that there is a drinks
property and that drinks property is an
array so i want the first object out of
that array so what should my index be if
i want the first object out of that
array
i'm not sponsored by nordvpn although
hey
hit me up baby come on make that deal
come through i got you
do you not realize that we have 1500
people here on a sunday for seven hours
pretty sure we'd use some vpns
this is all sponsored by raid shadow
legends exactly i can't wait to get a
raid shadow lesson
sponsorship gonna spam the crap out of
it that's all
it's gonna be it's gonna be like all
over the stream like it's just gonna be
everywhere i i can't wait
now i i really don't like i've turned
down a lot of sponsorships like a lot of
people when i spot to the stream i
turned them down because
if it ain't free i don't really want to
mention it
so i turned on a lot of ones that
weren't like acts like actually free
i don't know maybe i'll sell it one of
these days but yeah i don't like i don't
like sharing stuff that's not free so
the reason why microsoft has been so
amazing to partner with is because they
make
so much of their stuff completely free
so i really like that that was pretty
cool same thing with hash node they make
it free
yeah cool
all right data.drinks we saw that drinks
was an array
we saw there was a bunch of objects i
want the first object out of that array
and
then we're going to grab that let's
let's do that let's just see if we get
the object from doing this first all
right let's refresh
boom we got the object here so we got
the first object that was in that drinks
array and then if we're looking at this
object we see that there's a drink thumb
stir drink thumb let's see if we can
just grab that
so dot
extra drink
thumb
cool
let's save this
of course bumpy
i love that there's some people that
come in here like this is still going
like what
[Laughter]
yes it is let's go let's go
we in here we online we outside
all right so now we're getting just the
drink back well just the image of the
drink back which is good let's go ahead
and plug that into the dom
so document
that query selector
let's grab the image
and let's set the source equal to this
data dot drinks
dot stra
drink
um
here we go yeah
so here's that drink extra drink thumb
so that should be able to give us that
drink
let's go ahead and refresh
boom there we go we're putting into the
dom look at us go
get that drink
tasty
beautiful
alrighty
let's keep it pushing folks
got through some basic arrays we made
fetch happen
um
but why do we use objects
why do we need constructors why do we
need classes like why do we need all
this stuff so we talked about
objects
we learned how to use them we're even
using them when it comes to apis but why
why use objects at all like what does
this help us do
well i see a lot of really good reasons
you can work with others organization of
your code
better structure
easier to make changes
more reusable
all these things are really uh really
important teamwork really important
exactly so let's talk a little bit about
why
last repetition hey all right all right
we've been paying attention these past
couple classes i like to see that
all right
so what if there was a system
nay a paradigm nay
a set of rules that we all agreed upon
to structure our code
and this structure made it easier to add
new stuff
it made it easier to read through it was
already coded i made it so that we were
not afraid to make changes late at night
well
this is always your warning at the
bottom of the slides
whether there's a system a paradigm set
of rules or a greater way structure to
do it well boys
[Music]
all right
object-oriented programming is that
system that will make it so that we can
add new stuff easier make it read
through what was already coded enable it
so that we're not afraid to make changes
let's talk about it
these things that we're going to cover
very briefly
we spent what three or four classes
going three classes going through fully
um so we're going to go through this
just as a point of review but we
literally have three classes on each of
these really important four pillars of
oop so we're going to cover the review
but know that we've covered this across
like three classes so if you don't know
what oop is
you've never used it
you want to see some actual examples
with like real things that you could
actually use it with watch those classes
and then we're going to be putting them
back into practice as we come back next
week because all this stuff actually
becomes really handy dandy when we get
to the back end
cool
alrighty so
we have a
this idea right that what if
we want it to fuse
our data and our functionality into one
object well that's where encapsulation
comes into play
the idea of encapsulation is to store
all your functions and the data they
work on into one object
so far a lot of the code that we saw
today very procedural kind of our our
variables are all over the place our
functions are all over the place we're
not really sure if the functions are
working on that data or they're using
some other type of data well we can
bring all of our variables and all of
our functions into one spot
and when we do that we are using
encapsulation and so it really is just
the fusing of our data and our
functionality together and the reason
why we want to do that is because it
helps us
kind of handle right because it helps us
to
helps us to keep our code more organized
we know where to go we know where to
make changes we know what to see and we
don't have to worry about making
kind of just simple mistakes it keeps
our code drier a lot of different things
that we get from using just that pure
bit of encapsulation
now what if we also once we have our
stuff encapsulated right we fused our
data and functionality into one location
what if we wanted a way to kind of
reduce the complexity of our code to
hide unnecessary details
what if we wanted to
implement things or work on our code
without thinking about all the hidden
complexity behind that code when i get
in my car to drive i don't want to have
to think about how the engine is mixing
the fuel ratio i don't want to have to
think about my intercoolers doing the
job i don't want to think about all
these things
when i sit in my car to drive same thing
when i'm writing code i want to know
that that bit of code that the other
engineers worked on is doing its own
thing i'm not going to it up and i
can just focus on the code that i want
to write
this makes it so that our code is in
more smaller more manageable pieces
and enables us to really only do stuff
once once i've done something i know the
other engineers can use it i can take
advantage of their other stuff if i'm
building a new car somebody's already
worked on an engine i don't need that i
don't have to manufacture or make a new
engine i can just use the engine that
they built in my
car
so that's abstraction right abstraction
is this idea of hiding out the complex
unnecessary details it makes it so that
our code is more manageable and reusable
and makes it so we only have to do stuff
once
boom
with abstraction we hide and hide the
details we show the essentials making
our code more simple predictable
manageable
what if we want to create new objects
based on old ones
right so we put all this time into
encapsulating our data abstracting our
data what if we want to start creating
new objects based on our old ones
well if we could do that we're going to
eliminate a bunch of redundant code we
don't have to copy and paste we don't
have to re-type everything out that
eliminating of the redundant code would
lead us to inheritance so we've
encapsulated our code we've abstracted
away the details we're able to make new
objects based on old objects
and then the last thing
is that what if we wanted some code
that automatically works with a bunch of
different objects that we created
right what if we could write code once
and have that work with all the objects
that we've created we don't have to have
messy conditionals or switch cases the
loops that we write would work each time
we create each time we create a new
object we don't have to go and update
some other area of our code well that
idea of
having a bit of code that works
automatically with a bunch of other
different objects instead of
conditionals or switch cases well that's
polymorphism
so these four pillars
come together to make the basis of
object-oriented programming we went
across these over at least three
different classes it took us to get
through all these four pillars so this
two second two minute overview is not
indicative of what we learned it's just
to get those ideas fresh in our head
again but please if you have not watched
our oop classes they are here on youtube
if you're watching on youtube uh go just
a few classes below in the playlist
you'll see that we have some wonderful
classes that break down each one of
these with details with examples you'll
be able to see it understand it this is
a hard concept for you to understand a
lot of other tutorials suck at
explaining it we tried our best
cool
so
encapsulation the process of storing
your functions or your methods with
their associated data aka the properties
into one object
but what was the reason why would we
need a compilation why would we need
encapsulation why do we need to actually
do this well
when we encapsulate our content our our
properties and our methods together into
one object it makes it easier to add new
stuff like we know where to go to add it
it makes it easier to read through the
code because we're not worried if like
that function's working with that data
or that data is working with that
function since it's all encapsulated in
one place it's easier to read through it
was already coded and it makes it so
we're not afraid to make changes when we
update one value to another we know that
all the functions are using that data
and we don't have to go chasing anything
throughout the rest of our page
abstraction enables us to hide the
details and show the essentials but why
why
would we need abstraction well it breaks
our code down into smaller more
manageable pieces of code if i'm an
engineer working on a car
i can focus on the buttons on the
steering wheel and not have to worry
about the engine or the wheels or
anything else i can just focus on the
steering wheel i can just focus on the
buttons on the steering wheel and that's
it
i can make changes and still sleep at
night with abstraction meaning that if i
update the button on the steering wheel
i'm not worried about what's happening
on the engine or how the the the what
the windows are doing or what the tires
are doing i'm able to
have my code broken out into small and
more magical pieces of code and i'm not
going to lose sleep at night because i
know that they are abstracted away from
each other
inheritance
enables us to make classes from another
class to share a set of properties and
methods but why would we need
inheritance why is this one of the four
pillars of object-oriented programming
well it helps us eliminate redundant
code
if i wanted to make another car i don't
have to i don't have to copy and paste
an engine attires
doors windows i can just inherit all of
those properties from a car making class
that we saw earlier today with the make
car class
wonderful polymorphism is a piece of
code that automatically works with all
the different objects that we are
creating
the cornerstone of how we build our
applications going forward will be with
objects so it makes sense of all the
code that we're using can work with all
of those objects and so this
polymorphism like why why would we need
it well
helps you avoid a lot of else if else
statements and switch cases a lot of
times when we update objects we might
have to go and update other bits of our
code to work with them with polymorphism
we don't all the objects that we create
will work with the code that we've
written elsewhere so we're not keeping
track of multiple things and it really
does help support the other pillars of
oop makes your code more reusable
supports the other pillars
boom
it's like a five minute overview of what
took us nine hours
remember that took us nine hours to get
through so please
uh oop is still very fresh it's
something that we spend a lot of time
going over so go back through uh our
classes on that if you haven't gone to
it yet
all of our contents on youtube
completely free
without it's not monetized so there's no
ads at all
no ads baby let's go
alrighty
let's see
i want to cover the stuff we covered for
the hunt as well we're going to skip the
the building out of the um class
using oop we did that in class i feel
comfortable skipping that and i want to
cover the things that we did
um
more recently when it comes to the hunt
i think we'll get through this hunt
stuff
and then i feel like we'll be will be
good and i think that'll be our review
all right
with the mern stack we'll be learning
data structures
uh yeah we'll be doing data structures
so we'll be doing data structures um
as we get towards the end of the program
when we do more hunt yeah more hunt
related content yep
cool
alrighty
don't end early there was no end time
there's no way for us to end early
we didn't have an end time for this so
there's no end dig early
all right
let's talk about the stuff for the hunt
so
checklist if you haven't already go
ahead and grab the checklist uh the link
is here in the slides uh the checklist
has everything that you need to be doing
to get your professional life in order
all right your professional life in
order so uh there is literally a
checklist that you can follow that gives
you real examples that gives you exactly
what you need to do for your portfolio
your resume your linkedin your angel
list your github your twitter your cover
letter your cover email your resume
everything is on here that you need to
get your professional life in order
please you have to have this in order
you need these things marinating so by
the time you're ready for the hunt
you're ready to go
all right
if you ever need the checklist you can
always here in chat do exclamation point
checklist
right
exclamation point checklist and that
will give you the checklist that you
would need to make sure you've done all
these things but we've assigned it for
homework like three or four times now
you should have it done by now
cool
all right
we talked about this idea of everything
we do going forward in terms of the hunt
is about passing a
sniff test
as folks coming out of a training
program or a boot camp we all have a
smell
and that smell is what causes a lot of
folks to not get past the first rounds
of their interviews
it causes them to not even get to the
nerds
where we can
wow them with our technical acumen and
the project that we sunk hundreds of
hours
into
and so
a lot of things we talked about last
week and we'll continue to talk about
are opening as many doors as possible
and helping us get past this initial
sniff test
so that we can
show off what we know how to do
cool
one of the things that we can do that's
very very easy to help with the sniff
test is that you should be pushing code
every single day that means you should
be doing your code wars
adding it to a file on your local
machine and then pushing that that
solution up to github and you push it
every day so we can get those delicious
delicious green squares that when
recruiters look at your github profile
when hiring managers or folks on the
team that might be interested in hiring
you look at your github and they go to
ask does this person code and they see
that you have a green square every
single day for the past year they'd be
like oh
this person codes
they do right and so that helps you get
past that initial sniff test every day
push your code every day get one of
those delicious green squares
all right
talked about the most important thing
you'll probably do in your whole entire
career it is a hit list
for folks that are joining us that are
using this review as your first kind of
your first start into
the 100 devs ecosystem right if this is
your first start
one thing you want to do is you want to
make sure that we are being targeted
with our job hunt
we do
not
click apply
ever ever ever ever ever
we do not ever
ever click apply
and so the way that we get our jobs is
by networking and getting recommended
into our positions the cornerstone of
getting that recommendation of getting
the referral into these jobs is your hit
list
with your hit list you're going to use
the sheet you can do exclamation point
sheet here in chat
you'll notice that we have a new tab
called hit list and here you're going to
find the companies which you would like
to apply to that have open positions
that fit your skill set and experience
you're going to add those companies with
the open positions to your hit list and
then you're going to find folks that
work at those companies that you can
actually
talk
to
we're talking about 60
networked recommended applications where
we get recommended into 60
opportunities that's what you're signing
up for not one not two not five not ten
not twenty not thirty not forty not
fifty
sixty where you found an opportunity
you added it to your hit list and then
you found the recruiter the engineering
manager the folks on the team you
reached out to them
you found a living breathing human that
you can talk to you had a coffee chat
with that you eventually asked for the
referral
once you get these referrals
from the hiring manager the the person
on the team the recruiter whatever it is
you get these referrals and that counts
as one of your 60
networked it applications
now
the reason we do 60
is because you're going to have 10 that
go absolutely horrible
another 40
that's gonna be real
real mid like just just okay
and then about 10 that'll go well
and out of those 10
you'll get one to two offers
so 60
network where a living human breathing
person you've talked to has your resume
has brought you into the process results
in one to two
offers remember folks i've helped
hundreds of folks get jobs help
thousands of people learn how to code
the reason why you see some folks that
say oh i applied and i never got a job
or i submitted 500 applications they
never got jobs because they did it wrong
if we're networking our way into 60
opportunities and only getting one to
two offers there's no other way to do
this
there's just not
now one person here or there might get
lucky one person here or there their
first interview is the one that that
lands the deal that's great
they don't have the data that i have
of folks that have gone from boot camp
into jobs over the past five plus years
i've been teaching at boot camp for the
past 10
i know the numbers
we're networking our way in the 60s so
we get a chance at one to two
opportunities which means that when we
go into this process we go into it like
warriors it's called the hunt for a
reason
that means we're gonna have 58 that
don't go our way and one the two that
unlock a beautiful career for the rest
of your life
i'll take those odds
it sounds like a lot because it is
but you're talking about a job that pays
well is in demand
has high growth
is constantly rated as one of the
happiest jobs to have that's what we're
shooting for folks
don't feel ready we'll get ready then
we got the hunt coming up
and uh just don't ever click apply
all right
eventually we're going to talk about our
high value applications where we've
networked our way into 60 these
applications and 30 of them are going to
have custom resume custom cover letters
a custom story about why you're the best
things to slice bread and why you'd be
amazing fit for the team we're gonna
have 10 premium apps so 10 of those 60
networked applications once we get in
we're going to do a lot of extra stuff
we're going to do uh
custom stuff we're gonna do tweets blog
posts small simple one to two day
projects to show that hey
we could hit the ground running on this
team the things that you're looking for
i we already know how to do and so those
are our premium apps we haven't really
covered those too much yet but know that
that's coming uh the 60 that we will get
recommended into 30 will be high value
10 will be premium and 20 will just be
kind of like fodder we want to have our
first 20 or so interviews as like a way
to get comfortable
right
right as a way to get comfortable to
to have our vomit moments sorry i
shouldn't say that to have our
our moments where things just go wrong
with the companies that we really don't
care about
so we haven't talked about that part of
the strategy yet but know that that's
coming
you also have your 100 hours project to
be thinking about a project that you're
going to sink a hundred hours into
right it's not it's it's i hope you're
starting to realize that it's not an
accident that our folks have gotten
hundreds of jobs from 100 devs the fact
that we live up to our namesake because
we're doing the work that other people
won't do
not only can we crush coding challenges
because we've been doing a code wars
every day for months
not only do we have real clients that
have paid us real money not only do we
have projects that we sunk hundreds of
hours into not only do we have
projects where we worked as teams not
only do we have
beautiful portfolios github's resumes
all this comes together and we're
running circles around every other
person that tries to do what we came to
do and will
do
cool
once you get past that sniff test
i feel bad for a competition me too i
feel real bad for them
but i don't because the past there they
just don't want to do it
it's a hard path it's a lot of work
it's a lot of work
all right once once we get the interview
once we get past that sniff test
there are some things we've got to
realize
there's a process here and that process
has a lot of different things that could
happen each company is wildly different
right each company is wildly different
but we
get recommended into our roles which
often helps us pass typically the first
round which is like a phone screen or a
behavioral
if you do have a behavioral round
they're going to ask you the traditional
interview questions
what are your greatest strengths for
your greatest weaknesses those types of
questions then you might have around
where you're asked just like technical
questions where you're talking about
tech talking about code you're talking
about things that you might come across
on the job
you might have a take home which is like
a coding challenge that you do on your
own you might have a whiteboarding
challenge where you're literally on a
whiteboard or you're literally live
coding in front of some other engineers
we might have in-persons again nowadays
where you like go into the office and
you have a couple coding challenges back
to back to back they might even have
like a wine and dine interview where
they know you want they want you on the
team so they take out the dinner et
cetera et cetera then you have the offer
now each company does this process
differently but these are kind of the
stages that you can think about that you
might encounter
cool
now we talked about this last week
but once you get recommended
your goal
your job in that moment
is to know
every single thing
about their process
if you've gotten this far you've gotten
past the initial sniff test
got past the initial sniff test you have
a technical or behavioral coming up you
have to know every single thing about
their process you're going to go hard in
the paint you're going to go on
glassdoor github blind you're going to
go wild looking for every detail you can
find about their company and how they do
their interviews and you're going to go
in prepared you're going to ask the
interviewer hey what type of interview
am i walking into is it behavioral is it
technical should i expect to do a coding
challenge oh what kind of coding
challenge is there anything i should
prep any specific data structures
algorithms that i should know you know
every single thing about the interview
that you're going into
don't go into your interviews like an
accident
don't do it there's no need to you
should not ever be nervous going into
interview going i don't know what to
expect no you have asked them
what to expect and you know before you
go in what you're gonna do that day
and then on top of it you went hard
looking up on the internet every single
thing about their process if you look at
our class on thursday i showed you very
simply how we found
parts of different companies processes
right that's what you got to do
imagine if you do it and you figured out
somebody's going to hand you an 80k plus
check
cool
now
you've gotten recommended in
you know what type of interview you're
going into
there are some specific ways to prep
the bank is one of our keys to success
at 100 devs
right
the bank
is our keys to success
with the bank
we have
hundreds of questions that we are going
to have memorized
hundreds
i feel like when you get there and not
know enough everyone does
every company does everything so
differently
that we show up
right we show up
and we gotta learn on the job so that's
why the most important thing that we do
at 100 devs is not learning to code it's
learning how to learn
so that way when we show up in the job
we have to learn all this new crap we've
already been doing it we've been doing
it for months
and that's why we run circles around
other entry-level engineers other
entry-level engineers didn't have to
learn stuff that we had to learn as
quickly as we had to learn it at the
pace we had to learn it
and so they never committed to learning
a process getting better at their active
recall their space repetition even if
they went through a four-year degree
program they kind of went through it in
four years they didn't they could have
went through that whole program not
actually knowing how to learn well guess
what you know how to learn and so when
you show up on that job
you won't know everything nobody ever
does you've got the best engineer in the
world they're going to show up and have
to do the exact same thing as you read
the documentation talk to other
engineers look at the style guide how do
they want me to code here then you spend
all that time that you learned how to
learn to learn on the job and ramp up
every engineer has a ramp up period
typically three to six months
do you believe that an associate degree
is enough to get a software engineering
job yes i've helped hundreds of folks
with zero degrees uh folks that did not
complete high school get jobs as
software engineers uh so yeah definitely
doable
cool
all right so here are the questions that
we prepare there are 22 behavioral
questions that we prepare
and with these 22 behavioral questions
we're prepared for every question that
comes at us during an interview not
because every question is on this list
but because there's enough material that
if you prepare these
right there's enough material if you
prepare these
that you can pull together
the answer you need in the moment and so
the reason why we prepare these and we
spend every single day for months
reviewing them in anki is that when
we're in these interviews it comes out
like butter
smooth smooth smooth molasses blows from
our mouths it sounds like we've been
doing this for years but really we went
hard in the paint with enki
cool
we also have hundreds of technical
questions they're gonna help us fill in
the gaps for the things that we were not
able to cover during class there are
even questions to ask your interviewer
bank is the way
time and time again i have students that
come back to me and they say leon
thank you for making me do the bank
thank you for showing me to do the bank
because it was the thing that helped
them get through their interviews last
cohort we saw almost half of our folks
that got jobs did not have technical
coding challenges as part of their
interview so their interviews were
show me your projects show me your 100
hours project talk to me about the
clients that you worked with let me ask
you some technical questions and then we
destroyed it in every sense of the game
because we've been reading and studying
and doing technical questions for
they're all part of the bank
so
half's not hard but it's a lot
and the bank is part of that start so
please
start the bank
maybe not today because we've been going
for a long time we've been going for
almost eight hours so maybe today's not
the day to stop the bank but tomorrow
you must start the bank you need to get
your anki going you need to do it every
single day or you are wasting your time
with this process just stop
it's not worth putting yourself the next
three or four months
if you're not going to do what it takes
to actually get the job and the bank is
part of it
cool
we have behavioral questions
and behavioral questions we have a
strategy to get through them called car
cause
action
result
cause action result for every single
behavioral question
you're gonna give the cause like what
actually happened the action that you
took to solve that problem and the
result why are you the best engineer on
earth because of the thing that you did
why are you a better engineer because of
the result that you took
this is not a time to be humble you want
to talk your talk present yourself in a
positive light even if you're giving
away something bad that happened you
want to show why you're a phenomenal
engineer because that bad thing happened
we like to use words when we're talking
about the cause like at my last company
at my last opportunity there are a lot
of things that you can do that snitch on
yourself that shoots yourself in the
foot out the gate most interviewers
doing behavioral questions don't care
they have a list of questions to get
through to make sure that you can go
talk to the nerds you don't have to give
everything away you can you can give
just a very surface level answer and
they want to dig they will dig
most of the time people will not dig
are we filling in answers for the
behavioral questions in anki to memorize
yes you want a car a cause action result
for every single word that you have hard
memorized due to anki because what that
does is it does enable you to improvise
if you get questions that were not on
that list
how long should it take you to enter all
300 things
uh i've had students do it in like like
a month it's kind of look around like if
they're doing a couple cards every
single day like that's like 10 cards a
day right you do 10 cards a day that's
per month
you know
you can take two months to do it and
then that's five cards a day right but
the problem is that you start now
folks that wait too long to start it's
it's just too much
because we have some we have to we have
to do other stuff too to get ready for
the job as well
all right
action the step that you took it must be
a positive action right no time to be
humble during the hunt what actions you
take to solve that cause and it must be
positive stop talking down about
yourself during interviews it does
nothing to be humble during an interview
it does nothing to put yourself down
during an interview you're not going to
put yourself down and they're magically
going to think that you're better
because of it no stop it knock it off
number one thing i see
when my students are interviewing is
they don't have the positive
affirmations about themselves they don't
talk positively about themselves during
an interview they feel like by by by
shielding some of the negativity they
might get by saying oh yeah i messed
this up there no
stand tall talk your talk present
yourself in a positive light because
that's going to help you get past the
sniff test and talking to the nerds
result
why are you better because of it how are
you the best thing since sliced bread
because of what action you took to solve
that cause
now if you're like leon i have a really
hard time coming up with cause action
result well i did it live during stream
we picked a random question on thursday
and i did it live so you can watch that
back we're also going to do a car class
on friday so this friday we're going to
walk through a bunch of questions i'm
going to do it live off the dome i'm not
prepping them at all i'm going to show
i'm going to talk that talk right and
then we're going to bring folks up to do
it as well and have a lot of fun with it
so this friday we're gonna do a car
class so if you're like i'm having
trouble formulating these car answers i
got you on friday
technical questions that are on the bank
we use eu explanation use example
where we give an explanation about
something we say where we might use it
and we give an example so
the one we did on thursday was
a css sprite so css sprite what it is is
it's one image that's made up of a bunch
of smaller image the reason why we use
it is because it reduces the number of
network requests we have to make which
can speed up our application an example
is all the images that you see on amazon
like their logo all the little
flourishes that's actually one image
that they're just showing you different
pieces of so it's only one request to
amazon server to load
behavioral questions you follow car
cause action result the technical
questions that are on banky explanation
use example for each one and then we
have our technical white
boarding
the car class on friday be recorded
probably not
most of the friday classes aren't being
recorded because we bring people up live
yeah
should i just quit my job because i'm
never participating in interactive
classes no don't quit your job
bad idea
oh
my my back's starting to hurt
my necks hurt
i was like
i've been sitting a little weird nobody
gave me a posture check today
i blame y'all
too late evan
too late
you fox
all right
technical whiteboarding let's finish
this up and then we're gonna we'll end
with a raid
you're all too late stop spending your
stop wasting your channel points
i appreciate the posture check swamp
all right technical whiteboarding uh we
talked about the skills behind
whiteboarding but particularly when we
get to coding challenges we want to have
prep in mind parameters returns example
pseudocode when you are doing your daily
code wars at least 10 minutes should be
spent on prep yes
for every code wars i don't care if it's
an aq i don't care if it's a 7q you
should be spending like 10 minutes on
prep
talking through all the parameters all
right a number is coming in will only be
a number will always be a number will
ever be anything that's not a number
will be positive will be negative will
it be floated or a whole number right
talk through
your parameters
talk through your returns all right i i
when am i returning back to you i'm
returning to your string will ever not
be a string will it ever be something
that
gets in the way of returning that string
right examples write out your test cases
code wars gives you your test cases get
used to either walking through them or
writing your own and then break down
your program that you're going to write
in terms of your pseudo code
we talked earlier today about our pseudo
code without the step by step the things
you think you're going to do to solve
the problem and then solve when you are
in an actual interview you should be
spending like almost 15 minutes on prep
because remember
coding challenges test more than whether
or not you can solve the challenge i
have had folks that have solved the
coding challenges but don't get anywhere
near close to an offer because remember
you're testing not only can you code do
i want to work with you for the next two
years you could 360 slam dunk the
question
but if you didn't communicate and
collaborate the whole time you might not
get
to the next round so remember prep is
more about getting you ready to solve
the problem but also to start off that
communication that collaboration when
you get stuck if you have walk through
prep the interviewer's probably going to
help you most interviewers are there to
help they want to see you be successful
in the interview they want somebody else
that can be writing code alongside with
them so they're not working late nights
anymore a lot of companies are
are they tell their interviewers to give
hints if the person is communicating so
prep is the foundation of our coding
challenges we should be practicing it
with every challenge that we do so when
we're in an interview it comes out
smooth like butter and we're gonna have
lots of nights where we practice this
together so
we're doing car on friday we're gonna do
prep classes we're gonna do eu classes
we're gonna do a lot of this stuff where
you can see this process get better at
it i know a lot of the members of the
stream team have been doing prep
practice uh make sure that you're
watching that stream team channel
because a lot of them are alumni are
folks that have gone through different
portions of the program before you could
be learning a lot in the stream team
streams if there are parts to process
that you're uncomfortable with at the
moment
cool
all right remember we got a lot of
homework this weekend a lot of things
that are due
that are coming up um for homework just
just to bring it up while we're here
because we have quite a few things
uh i want you to read the this is this
is old i want you to read the async
await on the mdn we have a youtube video
to watch i want you to type out all the
examples that you see in that video
uh and then doing the 19th you should
have started prepping the bank already
uh you should have completed your
professional links you should have read
the monitor javascript through dinosaurs
just get through it i know it's
difficult reading same thing with the
crash course just get through it uh that
way we're prepared for node next
week wireframe for your 100 hours
project dude tuesday
all right
new tuesday i found the video to be very
heavy yeah i'm going to give you some
stuff that's lame i'm going to give you
some stuff that's heavy you got to get
comfortable moving through more dense
material because once you're on the job
there's not going to be a nice pretty
example of it it's not going to be like
really well write out really well
thought out documentation a lot of times
you're in the stuck and you got to
figure it out so you're going to notice
i'm going to give you some stuff that a
little bit more complicated i think a
little bit more heady a little bit more
academic just to get you comfortable
remember the big thing we're learning
here is how to learn how to deal with
stuff that's
not spoon fed so that when we're on the
job we can do it
boom
all right folks let's go ahead and
end with a lovely
raid
as always let's do raids because you get
the sweet sweet channel points
let's give somebody some some love some
some follows if you haven't followed
them already
all right
we made it eight hours strong folks
eight hours strong
um
thank you for putting in the work
this this this is a
this is an experience i hope that you
can take this time to review
i hope this kind of jog some things in
your memory i hope this helps you get
ready
for
or the next part of our journey which is
back end web development i hope you get
some rest tonight and i will see you all
on tuesday let's do a raid
uh we're going to raid techy girl
and
let's go ahead and open that up
boom
all right so
hope you had a wonderful rest of your
day hope you have a good rest of your
sunday i will see you all on
tuesday to get into our lovely async
await to get into our lovely back end
with note i can't believe how far we've
come in just a few months together have
a wonderful rest of your day folks
really really appreciate y'all give me
some of your sunday eight hours to work
through this stuff let's go let's keep
the love and positivity going if you
haven't given the follows yet let's go
ahead and give it we're going over the
techie girl all right peace everybody
have a gristy day
peace youtube